[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Under. In today's lecture, we will go.

And introduce the principles, heuristics and feedback mechanisms and their roles in the HCI setting for the project.

The content of this lecture will be important for your, uh, group project.

So the thing that you learn in here has to be included in one of the deliverables, actually.

So please listen carefully and take your seats as early as possible.

We are waiting. You. So what we did previously, we introduced the different types of, uh,

prototyping and how we can analyse the tasks that you, uh, for your group projects.

Um, for the general HCI settings. So do you have any question regarding the previous lecture?

And today you need to upload your first assignment.

So how is it going? You already finished? It is super easy.

Yeah, cool. So don't be late and do not send me an email at, uh, 0001, okay.

In the midnight so that I couldn't, uh, upload my, uh, uh, assignments.

Okay then. Let's see.

And, uh, introduce what we will see today.

And we will start with today's, uh, quotes by uh, this Rum's is a legendary, legendary industrial designer in, uh, in Brown.

Um, he come up with some set of, uh, quotes for us, like, um, it's an, uh, principles that he follows while he's designing, uh, products.

And partially we will also follow similar, uh, heuristics and similar principles, not by the deterrents, but the other, uh, it's, uh, people.

What he says. Basically, good design is innovative. Yeah.

So if you are designing something, it has to be some innovation in it.

Otherwise you will, uh, replicate the already existing products.

So we want to be, you know, what if and then another one is the design has to be useful.

If you are creating an art projects, we don't need to be in a.

We don't need to create a useful things, but since we want to.

Create a design product that will be used by all users, then it has to be usable.

Aesthetics. Yeah, this is a bit debateable, actually.

Okay, so there is, uh, some basic principles for designing beautiful products, but there is no consensus on it.

So we can skip this part. And the design has to be understandable.

And now my question. Understandable by whom? By other designers.

By the author of the textbooks. Who said users perfect.

Whatever we are doing in here, it has to be users, okay? And the design should be honest.

And honest means that okay, if there is some flaws in your the product has to be it has to be mentioned.

Like that product will probably complete the shelf life in two years.

Okay, so with this kind of stuff you have to mention.

Unobstructed. We will not go in detail. You can skip it, but the design or product has to be long lasting.

Of course there will be some fashion stuff or trends in the market.

You are free to follow it, but if you want to have a timeless design, then it has to be long lasting.

And I will show you a few examples by design, by the arms and how they are long lasting.

And it has to be consistent, which means that if you are creating the second version of that, uh, product or the design elements.

So there should be some consistency.

Yeah, there will be some ground breaking, uh, modalities like in virtual reality that if you want to include in the second version of it,

but oftentimes you are not jumping between the, uh, products.

We are iteratively make it be, uh, making it a bit full useful and changing our policy towards what we have.

And another one is the environmentally friendly.

Yeah, that's the one problem actually. Like here, almost all of our of us buying and using the daily plastics and it's super, super big problem.

So in this case, or, uh, design has to be environmental friendly and one way to achieve it.

Of course, in the digital platform, that's it may not be super, uh, important for us, but if you are creating a long lasting,

uh, furniture, for instance, then means that you are contributing the environmental friendliness of this product.

Okay. So imagine that you are building this kind of furniture for all classes in Tilburg University, and after two years you have to change it.

Okay. And the last one and the most important one to me.

What it says. Uh, good design is as little as as little design as possible.

So how this is possible. Okay. We are saying that he is a legendary industrial designer, but he says that design as less as possible.

How we can achieve it. Okay.

Now we will go and see how you achieve it in this product.

These are the main, uh, some of the products designed by the Deter Arms and produced by Brownes and UK.

Some elements are still in there and we are using it.

Especially if you are in the Apple ecosystem, okay.

And you see a lot of parallels between the data Rum's design and Apple products.

And that should remind you, actually. By the chords mentioned.

Uh. By, uh. By who? By Steve Jobs.

What? It saves. Good art is copying.

Great art is steals. Okay. And here, here it is.

Actually, they are stealing a lot from these runs.

And it is a design trends and design approach. Here you see one product by Brown and you see the same.

Design trend at trend or design elements existing here in the iPod.

Okay, of course they might not be the same products, but you will see the design approach is similar between these two products.

Okay. And here another one.

This is the speaker by Brown and designed by the deterrents.

And you see that becomes monitor for the apple.

And here is the actual, uh, what's the, uh, calculator by the Rams, and you will see the digital version of it.

By Apple. Okay. So it means that with this, uh, uh, this is proof somehow.

Yeah. The apple inherently adopt, uh, the Trump's principles and apply it is, uh, uh,

apply these principles to generate the, uh, products both in the hardware domain and the software domain.

Okay. Like you will see almost everywhere in the Apple products.

Okay. One thing that I just realised here, for instance, the apple lock in here.

And if you check the, uh, brownes colour.

People connect to each other. And you will see the similarity are undeniable.

Okay. And if you are interested, actually, if you check to some, uh.

Okay. This is set. Okay. Some, uh, design, uh, by the drums.

This is, for instance. Okay.

You see almost nothing in there. But everybody knows that this.

Watch and there is no number. Okay. Okay. He also removed the number.

And we have only two, uh, handles in here.

And the date. And in this quote, a quote.

If you are reading this watch and you are probably listening to this part of the quoting.

Good design is as little as design possible. Okay. And in your case, please consider this, uh, this advice.

Okay. In a super careful way and try to implement it.

And I am sure if you follow this kind of, uh, heuristics or principles in your daily life,

plus in your group project, then everything will be fine and you will get the high grade.

Okay. So these are the quite hand-wavy, uh, principles for the designs.

Okay. Because we don't have a data to support that, this quote with this kind of, uh, uh, components in it will satisfy your end product.

We don't have all this data. Except we have some success stories of the brown, but we don't have this data.

But during this lecture you will see actually some set of rules that we will have, and they are backed up somehow by the data.

So to first understand, uh. The heuristics, the principles we need to address one key concepts.

For the HCI for your next, uh, semester lecture.

Like autonomous systems feedback. So we are using feedback for our products.

To guide our users in. Imagine that we have an.

This robot. And you will see there are a lot of beautiful feedbacks exist in this world, which is quite nicely designed.

Like here, you will see. I am, uh, pushing in. Uh, pushing a button on the chest and you will see.

Some bites are opting in here. Okay, so there is an LED lights in here and something.

So it means that something going on. And here you will see.

Super beautiful design. Actually, look at the nulls. If this robot is somehow behaving like an Lord loading bar.

Okay. And you will see there are some circles going on in this years part on here.

And that indicates that the operating system or the PC inside of that robot is booting.

Okay. And the colour of this, uh, LEDs in the, uh, robot's, uh, eyes also means something else.

Something. It means some processes are, uh, going on.

Like if it's white, it means that everything is fine and the robot is booted, and now it will stand up.

If it's red, it means that something going wrong. Okay, so a robot will not move, and, uh, it will not function as expected.

Like your robot is. Now.

You see, it's already changing. It was, uh. Uh uh uh.

Sit down. And these are the feedback you like.

We initiate from our robots, and we know that what kind of actions that we can perform or expect to expect to be performed by a robot.

And one principles of the feedback in your case too.

It has to be prompt. Promise that instant. Okay.

Like you push a button on the robot and you are waiting, uh, five minutes and you don't know what's going on.

You push on the button on this, uh, laptops, and you are waiting and you don't know what's going on.

Okay, so that means that the feedback mechanisms of this kind of products are badly designed.

And another part of the feedback should be clear and easy to understand.

Clear means that the information you provide in the, uh, in the error message has to be clearly understood by the users.

Understand means that okay, give and enough modality enough sensory feedback for your users, that user has to decide what will be the next action.

And, uh, here, for instance, I will say, uh, I will run again because.

It's very good design products now. I really like it. And you will see the feedback is colour and.

Or neck and neck. Okay. Um, so Robert is actually providing you auditory feedback to.

So it means that we are not bonded with the, uh, only colours on the text.

If you can use it, you can also use the or. Sorry, even some, uh, somehow textiles like our smartphones has some, uh, vibrating mechanisms inside it.

Yeah, for some cases, they can vibrate. And, uh, or feedback also can be combinations of all three.

So you are. You don't need to give only one feedback to your users by selecting only visual component.

You can combine them or just use enough of them to make it prompt and easy to understood by your users.

Okay. So did you understand this?

Uh. It's like. Because for your group projects, then if you develop some prototypes and I will ask, okay, what will happen if you push this button?

Then you should have an, uh. I should have an clear understanding that.

Okay, what will happen if I, uh, click one icon in your, uh, prototype?

And what are the some, uh, design elements, like a colour.

Will mean for me. Okay, I will make an error. For the passport, uh, section.

Then you have to give me an prompt and easy to understand feedback.

Okay. And the. What will happen if you are not giving any, uh, feedback to the users?

Imagine that you are next to this tap and you push it up.

Then you are waiting the water to be to come, uh, from that top.

And this is super instant for us in our daily life.

Yeah. But for the digital, uh, product, sometimes it's, uh, they are not, uh.

You cannot get that a, uh, instant, uh, instant, uh, feeling.

Why? Because something. Some places are, uh, going. And there is a glitch in the system that, uh.

You cannot get, uh, from feedback. Continue.

It's a related to lecture or. Okay.

Perfect. Cool.

And here's another example, actually. You are, uh, you have the one, uh, button in here and what it says options.

And you are clicking it and there is no options. Okay. And these are real examples okay.

And you will see in. In the history of UI design.

A lot of, uh, this kind of, uh, problems are occurring with the super famous companies.

So it's not, uh, only us, but the some, uh, famous companies are all, uh,

also doing this kind of, uh, uh, it's kind of Watson, this kind of, uh, a bad design decisions.

And in here we. Or cycle.

It's quite simple. So remember this famous, uh, figurine here?

We are the users. We are taking on one action on the interface.

Then we are waiting, and we are waiting.

And, uh, computer is doing some processing in here. And if you understand that.

Okay, this process helps us to accomplish this task, then we are happy.

If not, then this interface has to guide us. Okay.

There is an error. Can solve this, uh, this error. Or you should call the it or you should just eliminate this.

Software and they install the second version of that software. Okay.

Yeah, this is the same thing I mentioned I mentioned in here, but later that will be super important for us.

Okay. As a users, you are doing something.

Okay. Clicking the button. Pushing a button. Switching off and switching on the buttons.

Or adding some numbers as in passwords or researching some products in the list.

Then what will happen? Your output.

The things that you are doing will be input of the system. And that input has to be processed.

Okay. Like, uh, password should be confirmed by the existing password that you already have from the database.

Then your interface or your computer will send, uh, some feedback.

Okay. Like your your available, uh, amount of money for withdrawing this, uh, uh, this, uh, process is €10,000 for this.

Okay.

If you go and buy the product with 10,000 plus one, then it means that the system has to give you a feedback that you cannot process this, uh, action.

And based on this feedback or the information, you are adjusting your behaviour.

Okay. Behaviour can be. Purchase it or add additional money to your, uh, bank account, or go and check its less, uh, expensive product.

And by this one, actually, you are interacting with your interface.

And, uh, if the interface is designed well, then the feedback mechanisms is that then you can understand that okay.

Whether you can accomplish this task or not. Okay.

And if you are using an interface, then it cannot help you to accomplish the task.

It means that super bad design. And to avoid.

To avoid this. Uh. Uh, what's this, uh, glitch?

To avoid glitches in this cycle. We will teach you a few heuristics.

The rules that you need to follow. Then if you are following this rules, then everything will be fine.

For your group projects for your professional life.

If you are an industrial or if you're an interaction designer in one company, then everything will be fine.

And of course this feedback is super important. Really. If you can understand.

It. From this lecture. Or from the context of the HCI.

You can easily extend it to the other lectures.

For instance, in the next year we will have an autonomous system course together.

Hopefully, uh, then we will introduce a feedback control in here.

We will use feedback as an error. And using that error as an adjustment module for your robot.

And you are already taking the, uh, machine learning course.

Did you see the reinforcement learning as a topic? Yes.

In here we have a reward as a feedback to your agent.

Okay. And based on that reward, your agents are, uh, preferring to some action over the others.

And in this supervised machine learning, you also have an backpropagation.

Like you have a one loss function. With backpropagation, you are minimising that loss function.

And this is type of the feedback actually. Okay. So if you understand it, definitely it will help you, at least conceptually.

Okay. Among the other, uh, among us. Uh, yeah.

Among the other, uh, lectures to. Like here we will introduce, uh, one, uh, topic in here, like an, uh, action perception loop for the robots.

And the the almost same thing exists. Uh. In the robots too.

Okay, robots are perceiving some.

Let's say you have an, uh, this, uh, drive a robot, and it needs to drive from, uh, Shinjuku to okay Bara in Tokyo, then.

Robot is perceiving some scenes from the. From the environment which its sensors let the camera.

Then processing it and performing an action.

Okay. And over the time, actually a robot learns by itself to navigate in the.

But next year this is super high conceptually a conceptual example, but next year we will do some simulation example with this one.

You know, super simplified grid world example. And I also mentioned that feedback control.

Here. I will not go detail but be. Be aware that next semester we will go and somehow develop some algorithms on the actual, uh, hardware.

That's, uh, emulate this loop, which called feedback control.

For the simple robots. Okay, so just be ready for the next year.

The feedback will be and you will, you will see a lot of, uh, examples, a lot of, uh, uh, development related to feedback.

If you learn in here, then it will be easy for you to get in the next, uh, next semester to.

Okay, so up to here you are with me with the feedback and you know how to implement it with some modalities like colour,

auditory combination of uh, some modalities.

Okay. And another, uh, two uh, concepts uh, for today will be.

Okay. Tools. It's called golf, but I really don't like that terminology.

Okay, but we need to mention it because, uh, this guy.

Its name. Uh. Yeah, that guy, Don Norman Mancini talking that coined to turn.

Gulf of evaluation and Gulf of execution. Please.

Uh. Make sure that you understand, because there will be at least 2 or 3 questions related to a course,

and we will always refer to it in the incoming lectures. So he basically conceptualised this, uh, to, uh, to, uh, go in this way.

First, I want to achieve something. You can withdraw money from the, uh, from the, uh, ATM machine.

Okay. And the world is my ATM machine and the interface of the ATM machine.

And I want to withdraw money.

So the first go indicate that if this is a good designed ATM machine or ATM interface, I have to understand that quite easily how it operates.

Okay. And how it operates, actually.

It will guide me with the. Colours, with the affordances, with the action that I can easily distinguish.

Okay. Like there will be a super big, uh, big, uh, button that I know that if I could push that green button, then my.

Commands or will be processed by the ATM machine. It.

So the Gulf of Execution state. That's if it's good.

Designed. Done. I, the user has to understand how it operates.

Okay. And it's called growth because we are minimising the distance between the.

The world's the existing ATM machine and the Oracle. Okay.

And that's why I called. It's called growth. I don't agree with, uh, this word, but we have to mention it.

And the goals of evaluation. Basically, it is the opposite way.

I perform something on this interface. Then I am observing it.

Okay. What happened? Okay, let's say I enter my password incorrectly.

Then the system has to show me a one error message that I can understand, which is a feedback understood.

So if I understand that. Okay. What's going on?

In this machine. It means that I, the designer, manage well to reduce this goal for evaluation.

Okay. And that will be an exam question.

Okay, so please, uh, make a note. If I don't ask them to come to my office and say that you don't ask this question.

It is the. So it is designers designer's responsibility to reduce the school.

Minimise the school's. Okay.

Did you understand? It is the designers, product owners, the companies, the, uh, firearms, the whatever, the people that are creating this product.

It is their responsibility to reduce this, to gloss or minimise the struggles.

Does it make sense? Okay, so most of you already know.

What is your, uh, little project in? So can somebody be a volunteer and raise their hands?

Come on. Especially the one that you are. Okay.

You. You? Yeah. Yeah. What's your project?

That will. Okay.

Um. Yeah. Like, mostly doesn't make, like, just.

Under the decision making will be personalised. You will, uh, not recommend people uh.

Doesn't like, uh, do not like to go cinema. You're not first.

Okay. Like that. You can do this.

Do not show them so they don't show flex in muscle.

Okay. And, uh, let's say, uh.

How you will minimise this part. Because you are designed for anything.

And I am your user and I need to understand how your system is working.

So what kind of elements that you will include? It will be like the sort of menu that will talk.

Uh, you must also, um, uh, just separates options on the screen.

You would like to move the. The names of.

Perfect. Okay.

And are we still to think about like.

Okay, cool. But be aware that, okay. It is your responsibility.

Okay? I will check your exam question if you don't make it the correct answer.

Okay, because this is the moment that you have to read. Okay.

Let's say you have a this kind of, uh. This kind of, uh, was a product.

Have you ever used a DVD in your life? Or do you know what's the DVD?

Perfect. Okay. I didn't expect that. Okay. And because we are too young, I will say instead of Netflix.

Previously we have this kind of stuff working with them. Yeah.

There are some, uh, actually friends. They had a DVD collection.

But one room is dedicated for their movie stuff.

Okay anyway. Let's say your goal is watch the movie.

Yeah. But something happened.

It's failed. You couldn't find where to push it.

Okay. Or you can find where to put the, uh, DVD inside the inside of this, uh, this product.

And it is quite easy to fail in here. And again, let's say you never use this kind of, uh, phone.

You know. Listen. It's not the.

Anyway, if you don't use this kind of form before then you will definitely fail.

And also failing you will definitely fail. So it means that the designer of this kind of products fails to provide the service for us.

Yeah, like if this DVD, then if you are failing to or you are not sure that's where to put the DVD.

Then it means that the gulf of execution. Between you and this product.

And let's say hypothetically, for the designer it's not minimise.

Why? Because you are not using you cannot use the uh this product easily.

Okay. So it means that the interaction between the users and the your, uh, system are not matching.

Okay. Then you can understand that this product is not for you.

Okay. It's a bit for, uh, other people. Then, instead of using the DVD, let's go and find an, uh, the same movie in the Netflix.

Okay. And what happens in this, uh, circle, basically, this product fail in the market.

Yeah. For this, this type of users. But here we have a Netflix.

How many ethics exist in the, uh, in the market?

10 million. Maybe more. I guess it is approaching.

Let me ask how many. How many Netflix Nuts Flex subscribers are there?

Okay. Well, 300 million.

So Netflix is a platform with 300 million users and this is a failed product, actually.

So you can only find in the basically some, uh, thrift stores.

Okay.

So it means that something is going on with Netflix that, uh, this, uh, guys are not, uh, yeah, this product owners are not, let's say, capable of it.

One of them is, of course, it's another the technology. It's always developing.

It's always progressing towards to online, uh uh, online, uh, streaming.

But still the same. Uh. You got the idea? Yeah. Like this kind of stuff are hard to use by their users instead.

Using the online version of them somehow makes sense, because you are the type of users that 3,000,300 million users are the type of users users.

And what will happen or how. I know that that gulf of execution is not closed, but how I can closed.

For this product. I have this product, but I don't know how to put my DVD inside it.

Go and take some science. That is perfect.

But you have to talk in the HCA concepts. What's that sign?

No. Choo choo. Okay, cute design is the same, but the.

Give me the HCI, uh, concept. During the first lecture we mentioned.

Affordance plus signifiers. Okay. So you will create a one mechanisms in here like put your DVD in here okay.

Or one arrow for instance. Okay. Yeah, this kind of stuff has to be done.

And the idea is okay. Give the affordance in a super clear way.

Even the. Not your ideal users can achieve the same outcome.

Okay. If it's, uh. If you manage to put your DVD and you cannot find the play, so it means that it's failed.

And if you put a play, uh, sign. On top of one uh button then user easily played.

So if you that you. Successfully reduced to a group of execution for that user.

And it can play and, uh, watch its movie.

And of course these are for the regular users, but for the expert users looking for a DVD collector.

You don't need to put that kind of, uh, affordances.

It's good. It has to be there. But you can also give some. Shortcut.

Okay. Then if something happened, let's say.

There is a glitch in the, uh, DVD, and it is rotating a lot.

Okay, then. You should provide feed forward.

Feed forward messages or feed forward with actions. You know what's feedforward?

Feedback is easy. You ordered it something. Something happened and you got the feedback.

What is the feed forward? Say in the Google I now in the Microsoft Word.

You write your, uh, assignment.

Then instead of control async okay or saving your document, you directly jump up to the, uh, to the, uh, that icon with the, uh, cross and.

Then you are trying to, uh, well, some existing this, uh, application and Microsoft Word will give you a warning to you.

Okay. This document is not saved. Okay. Would you like to me to save it?

And that's the feed forward. Okay. If you are doing one step and the system warn you.

Okay. What will happen if you do? Uh, if you skip that step, for instance.

Okay, then in this case, your, uh, document will not be saved, and you have to rewrite again.

But in the current version of it, actually you can adjust it again in eight minutes automatically.

Save the documents. Okay. All right, and minimise the force for the execution.

Each action is quite similar to the affordances. If affordance is clear, then the uh action will be automatically done on this uh object.

Okay. And another type of, uh, way to minimise this distance for the execution is this code morphism.

And that is the one of the secrets actually behind the Apple's product success, both in the hardware domain and in the software domain.

So basically. If you see the apple's, uh, icons.

Okay in here, for instance. It's a thrashing.

Of course, Microsoft also has I mean, whatever, but, uh, that trash is quite similar to the trash that we already have in there in our daily life.

Okay, so Apple actually. Or Apollo based applications are doing this kind of stuff a lot.

Okay, so you have an digital version of the what is going on in the actual real life.

Okay. And that is, uh, make it easy. And almost all users are super intuitively can use their interfaces.

And that is one of the success for the Apple. Like here we have an, um.

Uh, trash bin. Here you have a document and a folder, and we are doing.

Or in the daily life here we have a folder and we are putting or document inside it the same thing.

If you drag and drop this one on top of this one, it will be automatically. What I mostly put inside here.

Also the equator one. Uh. Uh, I don't know.

One not taking up. And it is, uh, it looked like it looked like an, uh, legal pad in Europe.

It's not super common, but in the US, actually, people are using this, uh, uh, yellow pad, uh, a lot.

Here. Also the, um, library. Basically, you are putting your, uh, your books, uh, in that library here.

Also, if you see this one, then you can automatically say that, okay, there's a microphone and I need to talk to it.

Okay, so up to now it's clear code for execution.

It is super important. And you will be responsible in your design and in your in your in your exam.

So please, uh, pay attention to good for execution.

And now we are moving to the evaluation. Evolution.

What? We say that you already perform the action and you wonder how the systems will reply, or how it is easy to interpret the systems feedback.

Okay, can you you tell me what's going on in here?

So. Loading. Loading what? Okay.

Next page. Another.

Maybe some. Don't think it's downloading.

Or it is booting. Okay. Or it's a progress bar like the one that you've seen the robots use.

Okay. So I don't know what's going on in here. Here. So that's the. Biggest problem.

I need to know. That's how I can execute some actions on the interface, and I have to be able to interpret the interface feedback here.

I don't know what's going on. And if I don't know what's going on, actually, then that's a problem.

Because if I put this, uh, uh, interface into real life, it will fail.

It will automatically fail. So to, uh, to, uh, eliminate or mitigate the effect of this kind of, uh, uh, uh, design.

Then I need to put some feedback on it.

Okay. If it's a downloading, then you can say that, okay, some percentage 80% is downloaded.

And I also need to give you feedback immediately, like the one that we mentioned.

That feedback has to be prompt and easy to understand. And somehow I need to also balance the feedback with the actions.

Here it is just an empty screen. It doesn't say to me, okay, perform this action.

This error will be eliminated. Perform this action.

This tournament will be much more easier. Okay? It will be faster.

Not. And since the Gulf of evolution is in no super large.

Okay. If I am not following this kind of guidance or this kind of suggestions, then it has.

It will take. And stay sane means that there is a difference between the user intention and what my systems are doing, and the product will fail.

It will not be useful. Okay. And another, uh, thing that I can do is the, uh, give the difference, uh, feedback.

Okay. Maybe your user cannot distinguish. Uh, here.

Uh. Some colours. Instead, for every rotation, you can give some, uh, some sound, for instance.

Okay. And your user can account. Oh, I see this sound.

I hear the sound ten times it missed. That's. I will wait a lot.

Instead of waiting, let me reboot or let me kill this action.

And the last thing that you can do is use the direct manipulation.

Okay. And direct manipulation will be another. Interesting example.

Like. Here we are. And let's say one example of for the direct manipulation is there you have a file and you are.

Dragging one file from one folder to another.

Okay, in the real life, you are also doing it. Okay.

So this is a direct manipulation. And now one of you has to tell me what's the difference between the skill morphism and direct.

I want to. Okay, let me remind you.

This one is ESCO morphism. And this one is a direct manipulation.

Because for me it is easy to understand.

If I physically perform one action, I can easily understood that whether it failed or not, like, okay, it's not working.

I you. Bye. Put in here? Yeah, I can easily understand that it is working.

Because my action is done. I can understand that.

Okay. It's working. The same thing exists in here. If you're dragging something.

From one folder document folder to measuring usability from here to here.

And if you fail it, it will either come to here or go to there in the background your file or go to in here.

So you can directly observe. Your physical action.

Whether it failed or not. Okay, this is direct manipulation, but skill morphism is just with the appearance.

Okay. You see application is using a microphone like interface, then it means that you will talk.

Okay. They are somehow related to each other, but not exactly same.

So. That it's not just.

So. So how do you. Okay, but not for the all kind of interfaces.

Like an, uh, for the transmission. Okay.

You are not, uh, putting here and going, going, going, going under.

You can read. But what we are usually doing. Okay.

You are using the imaginaries essentially. We are throwing it to you.

But in the Mac interface does not allow you to throw. You have to drag.

Okay, so dragging one, uh, document, putting inside of the bin.

But this direct manipulation. But the seeing the object is the similar to the one exist in the real world.

This is skill. This. Okay.

Now this is please go and check this website. And that's interaction designer did amazing job actually.

For some of the. For some of the listening.

Uh, interaction exists in the, uh, uh, computers, like here.

It is. Somehow we are turning the page. So you can intuitively know that okay.

Going from one. Seen in the, uh, I thought to the another is somehow going at, uh, page turning.

Why? Because if you turn the page, probably there will be similar pictures.

Sorry. Uh, different pictures than the previous, uh, page.

And this one pinching, for instance. Okay.

With the pinching. Mostly we are bringing something or, uh, close to, uh, close to us.

Do you have the same thing exists? This is the real pinching and this is the pinching in the.

In the I put. And also pinching some asphalt under here.

And you will see a lot of commonalities actually exist. I like this one. Okay.

Here. Yeah.

You're removing. You're talking. And just to check the this website, it is, uh, quite a nice to actually explaining what you understand here.

Like we are taking granted for this kind of interactive interfaces and they are helping us a lot, increasing our productivity.

But there is a huge and super beautiful theories behind it.

Okay, now let's give them a break and be here in 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, you can come here and ask a question about the assignments and then whatever you need to ask.

Know. Uh.

So. Does that mean you.

Okay. We are starting again. Okay.

We just, uh, show some, uh, uh, uh, beautiful interactions, actually, between the real world domain and the, uh, in the digital domain.

So just go and visit this website. I think you will be inspired a lot.

And now we are moving to the other, uh, part of this second part of this lecture.

It will be, uh, heuristics. And with the heuristics.

Do you have some understanding about it? Okay. You already see I one or I two.

Okay. And there are some interesting algorithms. But what is realistic in general?

Com sort of shortcuts shortcut forwards and, uh.

Uh, and, uh, persistence of mental shortcuts.

Mental shortcut for decision making in this decision making.

Yeah. Says no shortcuts or rule of thumb. Okay.

Sometimes they are not backed up with data, but, uh, some collective wisdom sexually applied to it apply to your decision making.

And in the, uh, in the design domain, we have three of them.

We have multiple of them, a lot of them. But most of, uh, we are using this three.

Or driving the similar principles from this three.

And the one thing that you need to actually, uh, consider that's um, oftentimes we're applying this, uh,

heuristics in the high fidelity prototype because you will see a lot of contents,

a lot of colours, a lot of interactions, and all of them exist in the high fidelity prototypes.

And in your final presentation, you have to state that five the heuristics that you use for your design and you have to present it.

So be careful about this, uh, lecture contents.

The first one is a Schneiderman. It's called the eight Golden Rules.

And you see, it's quite, uh, old, like a 38 years old, but still we are using it.

Okay. And once you read it, you will say that. Okay.

Come on. This is a common knowledge while you are, uh, even listing this kind of stuff.

Everybody knows it. But the answer is everybody knows it, but not everybody applies it.

Okay. And now we will go one by one and show the some examples.

The first one is the strive for consistency. Okay. It is easy to implement this one and you can use this principles when you are creating a new.

Uh, version of your new version of the same product.

You need to strive for consistency, because you need to save the number of the users that you already have.

Okay. And if you are suddenly jumping a more, uh, advanced interface, but initially you educate your,

uh, uh, users with this interface, then you will definitely lose some, uh, users.

And that is the things that we don't want. Okay.

Like, this is the one of the earliest, uh, let's say interface for the Microsoft, uh, sorry, uh, Apple's, uh, uh, Atlas.

And you see in this menu bar, you have the file edit with, uh, special, I don't know what's this special here, but this is the my current one.

And you see. Similarity is quite high.

Of course, there are some additions. Why? Because technology is improving and there are some new needs and it has transfer that needs.

But here if you go and click this file menu and this file menu, you will see the similarity a lot.

Okay. So it means that Apple with this product between this product successfully.

Manage to strive for consistency. Okay.

And another one. And then the heuristic is the enable frequent uses for shortcut.

Which is common. Yeah, we already mentioned it a few times. So you can provide one interface for the mouse clicks.

Another interface for the audio, another interface for some other, uh, interaction modalities.

But if your users are already super educated, okay, they use this, uh, Google Docs a lot, then instead of, uh,

limiting their actions with the mouse clicks, you can also go and provide the, uh, uh, keyboard shortcuts.

Okay. And the third heuristic in here is to offer informative feedback.

Okay. Most of our, uh, examples come from Apple domain, and they really, really make a good job.

Uh, they they are making a good job in this kind of, uh, this kind of, uh, uh, principles and heuristics for.

Um, I think feedback, like, you can think that's.

If you click one of the, uh, items in your desktop automatically, it will, uh, have a one rectangle means that they are selected.

And if you give the same feedback for the different actions. So it means that they are confused.

Okay. So do you need a microphone to.

To talk or. Yeah.

The one that's next to you. Guys, please be silent.

Okay. And if you have a question. Related unrelated.

You can ask it.

And next time, if you see that you are, uh, talking in that way, I will come next to you and provide you a microphone and everybody can listen to you.

Okay, so this is the, uh. Uh. Example for this.

Heuristics. And another one is the design dialogues to yield closures.

I mean, there are a lot of stuff to unpack in here. You. What is closure?

What is dialogue? What is this? Uh, heuristics.

So basically it says that. Okay, give the feedback in line with what your users see.

Okay. Like here, for instance, if the copying files come to the.

That's, uh, rench. Let's say 50%.

Instead of saying the copying files, say that 20% of your files are copied or 80% of files remain to be copied, for instance.

Okay, so closer it's become closer what you are showing to your users.

Okay. And the one important thing here.

Maybe you can apply to your, uh, to your design tool.

It is the. The errors are inevitable in almost all systems we face the errors, no matter how they are intuitive.

If you give from one users to another, they will make an error. And to eliminate this error, you should first give the information.

Then you should also guide your user with the feedback how they can eliminate this error.

Okay, like here a fatal exception as zero has occurred whatever the number in here in UX.

So the error message is not clear for me.

But Microsoft of course, this is a Microsoft example.

The famous one of the famous blue screens. And you see they are not good for the feedback, but they give actually do a good job in here.

Give me some alternatives. For the actions that I can eliminate this feedback.

One alternative is to press any key to terminate the current application.

Another one is control of the delta for restarting the computer, and the last one is the press indicate to continue.

Okay. So here the error message is not informative which is violate our feedback uh principles.

But uh error handling is executed in here.

Okay. The one user will do a lot of stuff.

And they will make an error, especially in the graphic design.

Uh. Uh, community. You will show something to your friend or the or your user.

They will say that okay, I don't like it. Then you have to easily reverse the final actions that you did.

Okay. And that doesn't need to be a final action. You can also parameterise it.

Go and undo last ten actions, or go and undo the updates that X users did ten days ago.

Okay. And the. The seventh one.

And this is also it's actually hard to unpack. Locus means that the centre of something.

Okay, let's say okay, it's wrong. But I have to mention the amygdala is the centre of the emotion for the brain.

Okay. Our prefrontal cortex is the centre or locus of the decision making.

For instance. And here just say that, okay.

Support. Internal. Internal. Locus. Internal. Of the control by your use of okay.

Let's say in here Microsoft will give in the same situation.

Microsoft will give this kind of error to you, but Apple will give you this kind of,

uh, this kind of interface that you can have a sense of control what's going on.

Okay. And with this one, what you can do, you can cancel.

You can first quit like a restart or you can quit like a press.

Any key. And that becomes the internal locus of control.

The eighth one. The last one. Reduce the short term memory loss.

Can you give that one example in here? In your interface design.

Okay. You are aiming to, with some functionality or some actions to reduce the, uh, memory load for your users.

How we can do it. Can you? How do you type in the search bar in space there?

Fantastic. That's a thing that I'm an expert.

Cool. And for this, uh. Eight rules.

Please learn. Okay. One.

Uh, application. Related to is that given in the exam, I will ask for instance okay,

you know the scenario like and you are a new intern in a software development company and the interface has,

uh, the designer forgot to provide, uh, uh, shortcuts, keyboard shortcuts for the users.

So which heuristics of Schneider that this company, this designer, this colleague is violating?

Okay. If you write this one. Or something close to this one that I can understand.

Then they can and they can understand. Then you will get the point.

Okay, so just to have a one simple example and learn the heuristics, then everything will be fine.

Okay now after the other two years later or famous, uh, guru, I don't.

Norman also, uh, comes with a set of heretics.

And instead of eight he said that okay, seven is enough for me.

So let's go and analyse, uh, the next to each other.

Now we will have an in-class activity that, you know, the Schneider man's, uh, eight rules, Golden rules.

And the read the seven rules and create a 1 to 1 map.

Okay. Like strive for, uh, consistency is similar to, I don't know, designed for error.

Okay. It's not correct. But here, now you can see that. Okay.

The A4 of this parts. Left parts.

Yeah. Last part is similar to the, uh, seven of the right parts.

Okay. If you understand the task. No.

So you will just read it and say that, okay, this one is close to this one.

So just taking a few seconds. Three.

Okay. The first one. With a strive for consistency in Schneiderman and in the normal setting,

which one is close to its or the satisfy the same meaning, same actions in here.

And the example is like this. Okay. Strive for constant consistency.

If. Which one of us is?

Number. Okay. Let me.

I will choose randomly. Then you can say that yes or no. Okay. Uh.

Number four. Yes.

No. Go. Number one. Number one.

Hear, hear! Both of them use both knowledge in the world and the knowledge in the head.

Mhm. Give me a example. Sorry.

Which one you want? For get mappings right?

Okay. First you need to explain what is the mapping. What's mapping?

Okay. What? You understand the mapping. Come on.

Nothing in enormous. So let's say it's like a place.

Uh, yeah. Placement of things. Yes. So, uh, in the example of the number of sites, or was the placement of, uh, Violet.

Um, so I think it's. Okay.

Good catch. Very good question. Yeah, I can accept it.

Okay, how about the. Seven is close to one.

Once they strive for consistency. And others say that okay, if you cannot do anything, just follow the standard.

Can be. Yes. Yes. Okay.

Okay. Cool. You don't need to agree with me, but. And how about this one?

Or for error prevention or simple error handling. It's obvious.

Yes. Okay. Yes. Six. Perfect.

So just practice it, okay? In your free time with this kind of stuff.

Okay. And this one is important. And the, uh, Nielsen.

I guess it is after, uh, this is the last one that we will have.

And, uh, just go and check this website and ungroup and Nielsen and Norman Group, they call it.

And they are, uh, company offers some consultancy for, uh, for design thinking and, uh, UX design,

UI design and this kind of, uh, uh, in it, they are getting services in this kind of a domain.

And here I don't know if you can see or not. It's called an ant group one.

And is Norman another and business. Okay. So they are, uh, companies.

They actually they require a company.

And he come up with the, uh, 1036, and we will go all of them on a one by one in the group project, you have to select five of them.

And in your presentation, you have to show that, okay. You follow this.

These. Okay. At this point, you can do more.

Okay. Let's go.

Okay. Let me. Mhm.

Let's go for the eight. Can you give me one example for eight.

Yes. This is the most.

He does not do the right amount of.

Perfect. I didn't follow the TV stick, but it's a good compliment.

Thank you very much. And, uh, what else that you are using that can be.

Example for this one aesthetic and minimalistic design. Come on, Google about error prevention.

Okay. Go with error prevention. In my development account, whenever I.

Do I really want to do this? Go back.

Okay, that's a little something I do accidentally.

Perfect. That's an error prevention. And, uh, what is the concept that defines this section?

Do you remember? Concept that we introduced in the feedback.

Um, okay. If you. Mentioned that a concept correctly.

You will get coffee. Sorry, I think you can, I think.

But you got a hint, if you mention correctly, that you will get the coffee. Two cups.

Confirmation from. Okay.

What is the concept? You are defining what it is. I don't know.

Come on, you know. I know, you know. Anyone else.

Then you can share the two coffees. Hello. Okay.

He said that. Okay. When he's, uh, using his, uh, saving accounts, and it is somehow systems prompting him.

If you do this one, this action will happen. You have it forward looking.

Okay, two of you have coffee, and I also want coffee too.

Once students actually in the first lecture. Uh, if he's here, you can also come.

And we can go all the time today after the lecture and have a coffee.

Okay, so the first year is six.

Visibility of system status and it is easier like if you are uploading some file, for instance, show the progress bar.

Same thing with the robot. Show the progress bar in the robot years.

So the first risk is the visibility of the system status.

Okay. And if you are uploading some folders and you don't have anything.

Or any message that whether your followers uploaded or how many followers remains, what percentage that it remains.

So that will be problematic. You cannot understand whether you upload or not with that basic action.

But here, if you perform uh, this heuristics, you will have this beautiful implementation.

So in your uh, many of you will design an app.

And in that app you can show some progress bar.

Okay. Like whether the approaches are executed or not.

And you can show this kind of, uh, implementation. And the.

Another thing is the mesh between system and real world, which was what was the concept?

You know it. Success of the apple, we said.

What? Morphism, but what morphism?

There are lots of morphism in the in the in the in the English language.

Come. Skill morphism.

Okay. In the lecture in the exam. So if we ask please write a bit correctly.

If I understand what you are writing then it's fine. Yeah.

This is actually if you match between the system. What you are seeing into this operating system and the in the real life.

So it means that you satisfy the seriousness and the. Users will find easy to use.

Your, uh, your, uh, your, uh, products. And don't forget that these are the usability heuristics.

Okay? It's not something else. It's not evaluation.

Uh, post evaluation, uh, heuristics. It's not that need finding. Interesting.

Okay. This is usability risks. And the third one is the control and the freedom.

Control means that. Okay. At what detail? That your systems can be used by your users basically.

Some users are quite novice. They are just going with the with the mouse interaction.

Another one is the super, super advanced users. Like let's say here you are using the terminal.

Okay. And with this terminal, basically you don't need to use anything in the, in the, uh, desktop.

Like, let me show one thing. Okay.

And you know how to create an, um. Uh, create an folder in here.

Just go somewhere else and click new Folder.

This is the new folder, one with two action. But in reality.

You can come here and let's say what I am. City workspace.

Okay, now we have PyTorch, Quatro and Readme.txt.

Let's see mkdir of any folder.

You see, my folder is created in here. Okay, so for some advanced users, you don't need to go and provide, uh, hosting.

Sorry. Some advanced users may not prefer to use your product in a conventional way.

Like the mouse clicks right click, it becomes three actions.

But if you're on the keyboard and if you, uh, quickly type it with one action that you can achieve, uh, this sort of stuff.

Okay. And the fourth one is the consistency and standards.

These are a bit hard to actually do it, because you need to have a version of the same product,

like one standard way, and these are not written on the stone.

These are not industrial standards that everybody has to follow.

But over time, actually, you will see there are commonalities between the websites, like a commercial websites.

If you are creating an next Ikea like product, so it's better to follow the interface.

Why? Because you are targeting the same users. Yeah.

Or similarly users. If users already educated in the Ikea website, you don't need to create an I don't know, super creative website.

Okay, so just make an action that's similar to Ikea. Here.

Actually, Microsoft, uh, office products, they are super nice.

Okay. Even though they are for Microsoft, Microsoft Power, uh, point, uh, Excel.

And the word I will say one of the best, uh, application that Microsoft creates here, you will see among the different type of uh, uh, iteration.

Actually this part these seems okay, like with the fonts.

You can change the, uh, typeface in here. It is, uh, size, and they are common among the different type.

Uh, different version of the Microsoft Word. So it means that they already specify the consistency.

And also with the lose, they exist the same type of consistency in the, uh, in the logos of the logo or icon of the, uh, Google product.

Like over time it changed to from here to here. But you will see there are some similarities.

Okay. And if you if I showed this one.

For you. And if I ask this one in the next lecture, probably you will realise that this is the same, like okay or the icon for the same product.

Okay. The error prevention. This is the famous example that your friends already mentioned.

So mostly we can do for the feedforward things in here.

Sorry. Uh, feedback in here. Like if you are typing a 1 or 2 or letters from one product, we can list it.

Okay to health or users. Uh users posting users uh uh uh, memory verses.

Okay. Maybe it is like the one that you couldn't remember.

Skeuomorphic. Okay. You know something with morphism, but.

What morphism okay. So skill morphism for instance. So.

Another thing is in here. The feed forward stuff. Must belong to this one.

You sent an email, but you didn't attach anything. Then your interface will warn you.

Okay, that will be another example. And the for the, uh, criteria.

It has to have an uppercase lowercase, a number, and it has to be a longer than the ten characters.

Okay, now another one. This one a recognition rather than recall.

Okay. I need a volunteer to explain me. What's the difference between recognition and recall?

Think about machine learning concepts. Which one is harder?

Recall or the commission? One.

Yes. Uh, the explanation is correct. Here.

Recall means that okay, you are recalling or the memorising.

The exact same thing. Okay. But recognition means that, okay, just you are seeing something and easily understanding what that is, that it's okay.

Like the same example in here. Robots are your, uh, looking for, let's say, uh, uh, Kubrick's movie.

Okay. Can you remember this one? Uh, Doctor Strangelove or.

How. How I stop worrying and loving them. I don't know, atomic bomb.

It's very long to remember and it is easy to make a mistake.

If you type this one Doctor Strange and Google will give you an alternative for it,

then you will, uh, easily recognise that all this is from the Kubrick.

Then you will select it. Okay. Okay.

I'm the one student.

Actually, in the first year when I introduced this one, he made a very, very nice command in the in the, um, of course, evaluation.

Okay, it's a bit personal story, but I have to tell it to make sure that standard understand it.

Okay. So in the first year, we did some, uh, because I inherited the course from the other instructors.

We did, uh. Some of the ABC type question.

Multiple choice questions. And of course, multiple choice question students has to recall a lot of stuff.

Yeah, like school morphism policies okay. In the one example, if I say that's a ski morphism, another uh option will be scale morphism.

Correct one. The third one will be I don't so call morphism.

So you need to recall it. Yeah. Like with this one. Exactly what it is means.

But if I give you an, um, option, okay.

To write in a text box. If you write somehow skill morphism, it means that, okay, you already know that concept.

Okay, but, uh, writing is a bit incorrect, and writing with the current, uh, search engines can be easily fixed.

Okay, so as to not criticise that kind of, uh, exam question, which I completely agree.

Okay. You said that this year. Uh, no.

This course questions are designed for the recording rather than recognition.

Okay. So he's using the.

Concept that we teach in the class to criticising the class itself.

It was perfect type of the feedback that we get it. So that's why you will have an, uh, not that's why.

But, uh uh, in this course, you will have an open ended.

You will have one. Not multiple choice. True. False. And fill in the blanks questions.

So it will be helpful for your recognition. Seventh flexibility and efficiency of the use.

It is overlapping with the, uh, with the error prevention.

Okay. Like if you give, uh, the shortcuts as, uh, shortcuts, for example, for this, uh, heuristics, we will accept it.

And aesthetics and minimalist design. That is a bit hard to convince our students because they like colour a lot.

Or sound a lot. Okay, I'm saying that not you sound.

You are repeating the same mistake. Do not use colour. The first thing that.

Go to colour palette and choose the one of the basic colours.

And here, of course, it's nothing again, uh, written in the, uh, stone.

And, uh, it's not, uh, a rule that we will always follow.

But if your product is aesthetically satisfying and the minimalistic design,

then instead of targeting at some specific users with the one that who likes that colour, red colour,

for instance, if you go with that path, then your user domain will enlarge, okay,

then you will sell your services and the products for the, uh, for the, uh, more people.

And a few examples like, uh, this one is the Google, the famous one. Okay.

And, uh, probably the only, uh, only unnecessary button in here is the.

I feel that I am lucky. Okay. That one. Here.

Also, it's a quite nice actually minimalistic design from the kayak like Booking.com actually.

But if you go with the Booking.com you will see. Mass.

Should we see it or not? You want to know what's in? And here is the, uh, one other application, actually.

So it's not ultra minimalistic, but the colour choice is quite good.

It's not distracting you while studying. So you can, uh, basically adopt this kind of design in your, uh, project.

Especially in the high fidelity and the one that we sure won't be doing the intellectual.

It's called a tipple. And she used that green.

Uh, green, uh white and uh uh, green, white and black colours.

Okay. You know, super simple, balanced way and a very good design. If you need some lecture related, uh, examples, please go and watch that video.

Well nine. This is again, is quite, uh, similar to the error prevention.

Okay. So we need to actually warn or users.

Okay. How they can, uh, first understand the error.

Another one is what they need to perform to prevent that erosion.

Okay. I hear the password case.

Okay. You are, uh. Somehow.

Let's say creating. Anyway, uh, you are creating a new account or, you know, let's say you created one account.

Okay. But you want to understand that.

What kind of, uh. What? Sort of let me make it into concrete as well.

So you create a, uh, you already have a one account. And.

You have a same email, uh, account for different, uh, different mail clients.

Okay. Like what? That's okay. Outlook.

Okay. Uh, Gmail. Okay. But.

You are not sure that which password that you used. Okay.

Because it's. And, uh, you are using a, that's, uh, email account for the person for the.

Amazon. Okay. And you are not sure that. Okay. Which one of you enters?

Or which one is linked with your account. In this case.

The Amazon can give you some hints to you. Okay. Okay. You don't remember what K but it's G or it is outlook.

Then instead of, uh, listing the all combinations like the Gmail Yahoo mail, I don't know, proton mail.

The other stuff. The system can, uh, suggest you first letter, which is quite distinguished with the other stuff with the G.

Then you can easily remember your email and the editing there.

I know it's a bit, uh, a different type of example, but, uh, I'll come up with that one, uh, nice example later.

Cool. And the last one is the, uh, is similar to the, uh, normal one.

If everything else fails. Standardised. Here's.

If you couldn't manage it or your, uh, your users failed to do something.

So give them help with the documentation. Okay.

How they can create the components in Figma, for instance,

how they can change the colour palette okay, how they can change the line thickness of the line.

Okay. You cannot show in the interface, but your user has to, uh, has to go and check the documentation and find out from there.

I know it is a lot of, uh, information bombardment for you.

But just go there and check it. And with each one.

You will already apply a few of them in your project, so it will be quite easy for you to later understand.

But for this one, go and learn at least one example for it.

Okay. Cool.

This is the. Another resources actually like these are.

Heuristics and principles are quite hard to come up with.

Okay, so if you start for an internship in the one design company, this kind of, uh,

companies already will give you a file, okay, that they contain data, materials and data properties.

Okay. Like here, for instance, let's say for an, uh, Apple's, uh, application, the size of the buttons and the curvature of the buttons already know.

Okay. Like, even though they are super long, they.

The same thing is today. Products. Like, I don't know, which is, uh, an official one, but, uh.

For the curvature of the sky. Okay. I was going to soften.

So much of the sky is matching with the iPhone coverage.

Almost seamless. You can see here.

And the curvature of this one also will match with the your, uh, airport.

In the same way. So this kind of stuff are not visible to us.

Yeah. Like we cannot, uh. Assume that it is already there, but there are some people already care.

Okay, this kind of small stuff with their product and at least one of them.

Okay. And of course, we will not expect from you to be that kind of design obsessive or in detail.

But if you can show some, uh, some practices actually, then you will definitely be a bit more educated and you will like what you are creating more.

One anecdote that I will mention. So the guy that who, uh, designed the iPhone jumped a knife.

Okay. When, uh, Steve Jobs, uh, passed away.

He's making a speech about, uh, his, uh, friends and, uh, his bosses.

Steve said that we are going to talk in a different country.

Of course, they need to sleep in a hotel. Okay, so that's what I am.

Hotel. I am not unpacking my. Luggage.

I'm waiting a call from Steve. Okay, because he needs that.

Okay. Still will be super obsessed. That's what's going on in his environment.

And check the design details of what is going on in their environment and in a that's a, uh, in a first 15 minutes, he will call Jonathan.

You okay? So that's okay. Let's move from this, uh, hotel environment.

Okay? I don't like it. Why? Jonathan will say you just reply that I don't like the design of the light switches.

And of course, if you are that. Super detailed.

Okay. With your life, with your, uh, design decisions.

Then you can trade this kind of products. You. So that is the things that actually we need to learn.

And I hope some of you will definitely get some inspiration.

And for the more inspiration, you can go and check this. Uh.

Person. These are arms. He's one of our gurus.

He's super misunderstood industrial designer. But I personally like him.

We'll check him his documentaries and watch this.

Uh uh, this, uh, talk. Becoming a loner.

You will definitely have some inspiration from that. And I will suggest not skipping the next, uh, practice session.

This part of the session, we will go and introduce some, uh, visual elements.

And, uh, two guys for the coffee. You can come here and we can go to our time.

And if you are drinking coffee, we can offer some other. So.

This. Is.

This is. What it.

Looks like. Oh.

That's good. Yes.

Uh, so I had the coffee, but I already had that, uh, next six or.

Something. Um, so the idea is.

No, I have nothing today that I will focus. Okay.

I know you want to see Indians running your.

I mean, okay, so. The heck and who?

Who did that? I am a bit upset that I haven't started with the group assignment.

Yeah, you have to let me do it. That's the thing.

I need a group that is Figma free because I have a problem with my.

Let's call it a laugh or I think something.

