[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Yeah. We are starting.

For today's topic. Today's topic will be a bit, uh, freestyle, actually.

So we'll have a lot of, um, conversation together. And, uh, before starting, I need to mention a few things, but not now.

So previously we did human robot interaction as a part of human computer interaction.

Do you have any question related? This. No. Okay.

And today will be our last lecture, uh, to introduce the topic.

So next week we will have an exam review. So please attended.

And, uh, next lecture will not be recorded. So it is better for you to be present in here.

And your exam dates are approaching. Please note that you have to register your exam by yourself.

Okay, it's not announced yet, but do not panic.

Uh, it will be announced soon. I guess next week to be announced.

And whenever you received the, uh, announcement date, uh, please register yourself to exam.

And if you miss registration, you cannot attend this.

And I cannot do anything. Previously, we had one, uh, one, uh, uh, issue with one student.

Uh, the, uh, students group project was quite good, but, uh, unfortunately, he missed the, uh, exam dates, but, uh, he is recovering the rest.

So please do not, uh, underestimated and register on time.

Okay. And for today's practice session, this week's session, please attend.

Because it will be one of the last, uh, practice session that we will organise.

And the deadline is 13. Uh, I need to ask, how's the low and medium fidelity prototypes are going?

Well, they need to, uh, want the extension. Yes.

No. Yes. Yes. Okay for the.

The deadline is 14. No. 13. 13.

Then I will make it a 14. But remind me during the break.

Okay, I need to change it because I don't know why we, uh, organised, as in, uh, submission at, uh.

And of Thursday. Yeah, that that was a mistake, actually.

Usually this is one day after the, uh, last, uh, practice session.

Anyway, we will fix it. And what else?

Uh, yeah. And next week's lecture will be quite important.

So it will be, uh, exam and we will solve around the 20 exam question together.

And by this you will understand that okay. What kind of strategy that you need to follow to get the maximum grade.

And it will be quite interesting session because I will put an exam question in here and you will try to answer with.

Then we will correct your answer. With this feedback.

You will understand actually okay, how much you need to invest to prepare for this exam.

Overall, I will say that it is quite. It will be quite easy. Okay, assuming that you already know some concepts under you did your, uh, projects.

Until now, so it will be quite easy. But it's done.

Okay, that's the thing. Okay.

And in this lecture we will. Introduced How to Build a Smarter Society.

Yeah, because do you know that table converse is a motto.

What's your universe's motto? Something about.

What? Okay. And why? Understanding society, not advancing the society.

Or do you like this motto? If I have an option. Not me.

About the universe. Every option. Will you change to something else? Like building smarter society.

Building robotics society? No. Or you are happy with it? No, actually it isn't a bit hard to change it.

Because it comes with a school identity and there are some rumours actually people attempt to change it, but they failed.

Okay. Maybe if you graduate here and come back as a professor, you will have an option to change it.

Okay, let's make it smarter. Understand and smart makes society smart.

And today it will go and introduce some of the concepts and technologies that how we

will increase the smartness of the society and the people and how we can help them.

So it will be a bit broad topics, so we may have a lot of a brainstorming session together.

So this is the first question to you. It's an ethical questions.

And it says that your usability testing shows that your product is not usable and ready, not ready for the market.

But of course, in a company you are not alone and you have to collaborate with the marketing people and they say that they are usable.

The product is ready and it's usable. So now as a designer, your task.

Is whether you have to or let to know the your CEO or not.

Okay. Yes.

No. And.

Welcome. But your job may not be on the line yet because it can can be marketing people.

Failure to decision is a people failure and that they will decide on what goal, not just.

And it will fail in that. So you may not have any responsibility.

Any more ideas is. Some of them make us feel like.

So why? As someone as I.

Okay. Mail this to you. Okay. Any controversial stance statements?

It's, uh. Uh under-promise. And. Okay.

I like that to see you.

Yeah. In here, we don't have an idea about the product, but you are on the good line.

And how about this? That happens actually. One of the.

One of the submission in the in the last assignment.

Just read it and tell me your idea. Stick means that you will at least the needs of the local.

Okay. And assume that if you use this patents, nobody will discover it somehow.

Proprietary technologies. Yes, you.

Okay if I working? Change it.

Able to. But it is a super integral part of your product.

If you change it, you will do an extra effort. Change it for.

Okay. Changing.

Okay. That's nice. So. Okay, cool.

You. Assume that you are a designer.

Okay. Always assume. Everything.

Mhm. Oh.

Okay, so you will prefer to talk to the boss and try to solve the problem with, uh.

That was okay. Any more ideas? Okay.

Then we will go to a few other ethical dilemmas actually for the HCI.

But this kind of stuff happens a lot actually, if you are working in the uh, uh, real world.

Somehow.

Let's say you are a software engineer and your boss sits next to you and make a, uh, introduction to a product, uh, with the Canadian, uh, customers.

And that Canadian customers trust your background because you're an engineer and your boss is, try to oversell the product.

Which doesn't have that functionality. So in this case, you may find a lot of personal dilemmas for yourself.

Okay. Either you will interrupt the meeting and say that no, this is not true.

Or and the, uh, meeting and talk to the boss.

And within the minutes, they will find. Okay. So the thing that we are introducing in here has some actually high stakes.

So your job will be always on the line. So therefore it is, it is, uh, quite, uh, quite hard to decide.

Okay. Now we will introduce the, uh, some of the topics.

Uh, with the, uh, building smart symbiotic societies.

And this is our famous, uh, cartoon adapted from, uh.

Uh Symbiotic Systems Researcher Centre at Oxford University and or ehm.

At least my aim in here is to build and leave this kind of, uh, society and some of the tools that we can build.

This society is the IoT, Internet of Things or Internet of Robotics.

It of course ethics. Because we are deploying technology in this society, we cannot uh, uh, overlook, uh, this aspect.

And lastly, we should avoid the technology and the digital interface that platforms.

And we will introduce the. This is just the definition of the what?

Human robots. Empathic societies.

And in this case, if you want to create a one, a technology to be adopted by this users, we are saying that it has to be persuasive.

Okay. Very persuasive means that we want to change behaviour of our users and we want to guide them to or use or uh,

or uh, software or product as a tool, as a medium and as a social actor.

And we will go and check this three and this three will be one of the exam questions.

Okay. And usually we are calling that these are the three parts of the persuasive technology.

Okay. Imagine that there will be one uh fill in the blank.

Okay. It will be blank. Another fill in the blank. It will be blank.

And the third one will be medium. Are the functional traits of the persuasive technology.

Then in your case, you have the right tools and social apps. And usually students who are not coming to this lecture.

I'm talking to you. Okay. Oftentimes they.

Uh, think that this persuasive technologies are a bit sceptical.

Okay, but here our goal is do not cheat.

Do not deceive or user. Just to change, uh, their behaviour in a good way.

Okay. So that will be all. So maybe I want to first question in the exam.

So be prepared. Okay, so we say that this kind of technology can be a tool, can be a social actor, and can be a medium for the tool.

We are basically saying that, okay, we are giving an option to our customers to enable them to calculate something numerically.

Imagine that there is a sensor and that sensor is measuring or a temperature in the room okay.

And try to guide us okay. What kind of temperature that we need to enjoy over home.

And that becomes a then persuasive tool for us.

Why? Because we will live in an environmentally friendly, uh, home.

Structured in that case. Or after some learning.

Let's say you this thermostat collect data, a lot of data from you, and after some learning and your users behaviour,

it can automatically adapt itself in the rich time stored during the day.

It can. Temperatures can be, let's say 70, 40, 100, whatever the degree that you want.

So in this case, we are saying that, uh. Uh, this technology is a possessive.

Why? Because it is changing the user behaviour in a positive way, not the receptive way.

Another one is the using this technology as a medium, which means that.

You should understand there's a tutorial like, uh.

Or you should also understand that the. A learning tool.

But it's using as a medium, as a medium to help people, as a medium, to learn a new skills.

For instance, here, this is a, uh, an application that teach you the how to conduct the first aid.

So it means that you are acquiring a new skill based on this one.

It can be also some, uh, serious gaming, like in the military section.

Actually, that is one, uh, game. It's called the shy guy or the deejay guy if you.

Pass this game at the certain level. You can automatically hide by US military as a first aid or first responder.

So in this case we can use that or technology as an first use of technology if they can act as a medic.

Okay. Now there are a lot of overlapping between these two medium tools and the social actors.

But just remember one example from the each category in that you will be safe for the exempt list.

Okay. And the last one is the social one.

Here, in this case, the technology can be a pet, can be a coach, can be, uh, some social, uh, actor that teach you or give you a some nice habits.

I don't know, you are super young. Probably don't know what is. This is a Tamagotchi is an the first online pet, and I guess first online.

Uh uh, versus if it's social active that you can buy and, uh, each time you need to feed your, uh,

that or take care of your pets at and it will hatch, it will grow, it will have they own life.

So it is very interesting. I have a one, uh, actually with me, but I, uh, this morning I couldn't find it.

Uh. Where it is. In this case, this is my pet and it is teaching me some responsibility.

Maybe you can associate some kind of regular behaviour with this responsibility.

Like this pet will need and take a pill. Then it will remind.

This pill has to be also taken by the users. So I'm just case you have some social company for using this kind of technology.

And of course it's a digital but it doesn't need to be. And we will show some robotic version of it.

But usually they are up. And they are trying to play a social, uh, role, like a learning company.

And, uh, they are providing you, providing you by using some social norms.

For instance, if you have an, uh, digital coach, it will behave similarly to the, uh, real coach in the gym.

In the gym? First, we have a some social. Uh.

A link between our, uh, personal trainers and whatever she asked from me or someone else.

We are trying to do here. The role is the same. Whatever your digital coach is asking you to do, you will, uh, do it.

And that's why we are saying that this is the technology change people's behaviour in a productive way.

And that's why this is a technology. Okay. So the.

Yeah, it kind of depends. Yeah. We are not looking for that realism or we're crying and other stuff.

What if it can induce some habits to the user? Um.

Uh, you can see that. Um, I check it to, uh, whether this kind of dolls exist or do you just come up by yourself?

They exist. Okay. Oh, okay.

But how realistic they are. Okay.

Okay. Okay, then. Okay.

I know some. In some cases, they are giving you an egg.

And you have to take care of the egg. Okay, but for the egg, you cannot say that this is a technology.

But for the dolls, you can say that, look,

it's a technology and it might be an interesting market if you want to develop a one, uh, product for the market.

So whatever we are talking here actually just think about not for you, but for all.

Think about it. Okay. Can. Because for the current AI technology, you can create that this kind of, uh.

Uh, interfaces, this kind of games, this kind of coaching, this kind of, uh, uh, technologies, you know, 2 or 3 weeks.

Okay. Literally. Can you can this one maybe less than, uh, okay.

Let's say in one day you can create this kind of, uh, stuff.

So just if you are interested this kind of stuff, approach me. Maybe we can do something together.

Which condition? Of course you have to pay me. Okay.

And, uh, me in the sense that. Okay with the company ships, not the actual one, but we can discuss in detail about it.

Okay. And, uh, there's one interesting, uh, project in Japan because the population in Japan is ageing.

Hyperbolically. It's a high ageing society. And people in Japan, they not, uh, they are not in favour to use the, uh,

younger labour, the younger, uh, workforce to take care of the elderly people's.

Why? Because society needs in different, uh, advancement in different, uh, part of the, let's say, in society.

So instead of making, uh, younger people work, uh, on the health care domain, taking care of the elderly.

I'm not saying that this shouldn't be done. There is a one, uh, project.

It's called, uh, uh, Japanese Moonshot by 2050.

They said that we will, uh, uh, remove from limitation in the human society.

Limitation comes from body like. You are, uh, you cannot move any, uh, of your limbs, for instance.

Your brains are in a visual state and space.

Okay, you are located in Osaka, but you can communicate people in Berlin and the time.

And now we will see if you, uh. Uh, development on it. And so what a very interesting project.

It will continue until 2050. And if you are interested, definitely go and check the labs within this project.

Of course, if you like to work in Japan to like and you will definitely be be somehow an advantageous position to find a position in this kind of,

uh, project. Most they are mostly academic, but some professors are opening the, uh, uh, companies to.

You might be interested to work in. And this is the to.

A first version of it, actually just one part of the project.

And this. Check it. And while watching it, just understand the society that they want to develop.

You get the idea. And then we have some individuals they cannot, uh, they are, uh, limited by their, uh, body, brain and space and times.

And we want to bring all them, uh, all of them together, you know, one, uh, part which is called avatar.

Then they can socialise and play the games and achieve some other daily tasks.

And just note that this is only one part of this project. I guess it is, uh, it is, uh, this one results.

Yeah. It's just the one part of the project. And there is also another, uh, part.

From the animal market. There is a one cloud and it can shapeshift.

And to change its, uh, shape and the help the people. Like that will be unimagined and you will not.

The robot technology like an AI in the anime, you will be risen as an adult and it will help you to work or whenever you want.

If you want to see it, it will support you. And I will show one first prototype of this robot to.

Okay. Yeah. This one.

This one is, uh, I guess so. One year old in 2024, in, uh, Yokohama.

It's very interesting project. Excellent looking. So it isn't.

Yeah, I remember that. And it's called Nimbus. Like you are wearing this kind of, uh, robotic devices.

It will help you for your. Uh, for your daily activities.

Like it's. This is just a support system for the, uh.

For the lifting, locomotion and mobile mobility of the patient.

It's very, very good design I can. In the, uh, at home, you can see how they designed or printed this kind of, uh, interface in here.

And I am not sure that it will support you while walking, but definitely for sitting and standing up.

It is definitely working and it's a nice condition. And the people are suffering from this kind of injuries a lot.

Like an exercise exoskeleton type two stuff, and there are also some military applications of it.

Of course, here we are interested in society like a part of it, and it is not, uh, super hard to, uh, to develop this kind of, uh, robot sexual.

So again, it's an opportunity for one who are interested in assistive robotic technologies.

Okay. These are the, uh, first, uh, think like a persuasive technologies and assistive technologies for the smart, uh, symbiotic societies.

Now we are moving the internet of things. Actually, these are the things.

This is the things that I was planning to do in the at the beginning of this, uh, course.

Like I will give you some IoT kit, I that in terms internet of things.

And instead of designing the, uh, digital interface, you will provide the actual interface,

but time limitation and logistics and some other stuff we wanted.

But in the next semester, we will do a lot of stuff. Especially you will create a one, um, autonomous robot.

But two are people of five. You can create five of them together and put some features of the IoT here.

I also means that actually this, um, some objects that has a specific purpose, but you are integrating with, uh, additional features like sensors.

Okay, to collect data from the, uh, environment.

And the it has a software, you can assume that it's a controller or micro, uh, microcontroller or, uh, a chip.

That's processed the sensory information and somehow make a decision and send this decision through internet or any network.

It doesn't need to be internet. And if you have this all qualities like a sensor and a software that process the sensory information,

um, the uh, network that connects with multiple nodes, nodes in here can be any device that has an IP.

IP means Internet Protocol. And if you connect these kind of devices,

then you will have an internet of things like imagine that last time we have a one, uh, a video about, uh, about uh uh uh.

Let's see. He came. HQ studio this morning for.

For what you can. No, that's. One.

What is the. Trash bin. You want to see her with a hustle like a.

You see, these are this one of the trash bin. And imagine that it is a thing yet exist in the, uh, world.

Just you are putting the trash, right? And, uh, what?

We said that it has to have a sensor. And you will see in here.

It can detect the objects, it can detect the faces.

So it definitely has on the sensors back here the systems of.

Okay. Yeah. This is some social. And it has a chip, a kind of microcontroller, and it can process the information.

I am not sure it is connected to a network. So by this case, we will assume that they are not connected to Ethernet or the network.

So they are not IoT, but just assume that if they are, all of them, uh, are connected to a network,

they are sharing some information like where we should put this, uh, trash, for instance.

In this environment, then we can say that they are IELTS devices.

And one of the more students actually built some device like this.

Let me show in case. This is from last year.

It is quite a simplified version of its mobile version of the Smart Trash Bin.

But imagine that now it can, uh, detect, uh, obstacle and can open the, uh, door, let's say, in here.

But there is no other notes like it doesn't send that message to anyone.

Okay, I can imagine that this is, uh, a bin.

It is full. And send the message to you. And from your mobile phone.

You are checking that. Okay. Oh, this is full. Then I have to go and unload it.

So then it becomes a. Internet of Things.

And the internet part is a bit a misnomer, which means that they don't have to be connected to internet.

Okay. But they can be connected to any network.

It can be a local one. Or it can be a mobile one.

Then we can call. There are internet of things. An idea is always simple.

Like a weird thing. And that thing one functionality. And if we add, uh, two things like the, uh, sensor.

And the processor and the network. Then it becomes internet of things like a light bulb.

It is just a turning off, turning on. If you put the, uh, let's say, uh.

Woman detective. Then whenever you are moving somewhere else and then you are some, you go.

And during the night, for instance, in the shopping malls. If something is detected as a moving object.

During the. 2:00 in the in the night.

So they are sending the message to the I don't know security and security constant checks it and that becomes internet of things.

Cool. Are you following me in here? Because many of you will make a mistake about the internet part of this book.

Formal definition. Go to Wikipedia and you will find this one.

I mean, if you say the formal definition that will work for everything, it may not be correct.

But oftentimes this Wikipedia definition will work perfectly. Okay.

And there are a few papers in here you can check it. Okay. For the further.

Okay. And this is just a simple.

Arduino projects. It is a bit. Let's say I will say less than 50 lines of code in art in your sketch.

But in reality, delivering this kind of projects requires network communication and programming,

and the network communication of programming are one of the most.

Most so are topics that you can debug. If you make it one mistake actually, then it will be very hard to debug it.

So that's why IoT engineers actually earning a lot of money.

And the, uh. This, uh, software architecture can be super complex or can be just the one reactive, uh, stuff looking.

If you see some movement. Uh, turn the turn on the, uh, lights.

That will be reactive one. That you don't need to for, uh, processing the sensory information.

But in the real life applications, let's say you are a warehouse and you want to make a particular data warehouse.

Then you need to put a lot of sensors that get, uh, heat sensors to detect some fires or some movement sensors to detect,

uh, let's say the security people or the, uh, other, uh, people, that's who are not welcome in your, uh, warehouses.

Then once you are. Once you are, uh, collecting this kind of data, you need to process it.

Okay? And each device has their own processor.

But to have a multimodal stuff. They are sending this information through, you know, network.

Or in the cloud. Then your business logic operates in here.

Uh, anyone who has a web development, uh, background.

You know, what's, uh, business logic? Business logic is here.

The logic is once you are you have a data, then you have a some series of, uh, operations on the data.

Like you can update the data, delete the data, change the data.

And this kind of information becomes your business logic. Okay.

Like, uh, done with that service layer than you have in some applications, like here in the frontend applications,

you are just giving the information that's, uh, from the sensors on specific URL, not the whole, uh, white House.

Then it will. It becomes your application of that application layer.

And it can be from that. It can be CLI command line, application layer.

Or if you are super, super interested, you can also go and create and use your reality interface for it.

So what is the message here? It can be quite complicated.

Okay. Just do not assume that. Okay. You will have an in here with the one single set distance answers.

You will approach anything open, but in reality it can be super complicated like here.

And we say that all connected devices should have somehow an IP.

Because without IP I cannot transfer my data over the network.

And here it really doesn't matter that okay.

What is this Samsung coming from? It can be on the mobile robot.

It can be just a fixed positions or it can be in the drones.

Then that's up to your application.

Like if you are creating an, uh, agricultural robot, they are, uh, working on the one yard,

then you can equip your sensors on the robot and they can send the information to your network.

And with that network, you can ignore some data and, uh, use some data for harvesting the grapes in the in the vineyards.

And this is a core components of the, uh, this kind of, uh, devices, which are sensors.

Of course, if you cannot read any data from the sensors, then the rest is meaningless.

And that's why for the robotics also is the same. If you don't know what's the function of the sensor, or you cannot get the data from the sensor,

then you will highly likely cannot perform the task that assigned to it.

A census can be a lot of different shapes.

Like here we have on distance sensors. These are the laser sensors we have on.

Uh, I guess this is the ultrasound sensor. Um.

This is the IoT infrared sensors, and it is up to you.

Okay. Where are you using it? In what kind of device?

And your sensors can be super expensive if you are using the mission critical, uh, domains.

Or it can be super cheap that you are just having these kind of, uh, measurements.

Okay. Here. Probably she developed an algorithm that if the obstacle is, let's say,

five centimetres away from me, then I will open my, uh, uh, I will open that door.

But of course, it can be super, super complicated if you are working with the Federal Reserve or warehouse and, uh, or, uh, Mazda's assembly line.

So it can be super complicated for this kind of applications. Okay.

And we need to define that. Uh, what kind of. Core components for this kind of IO systems.

First, low power embedded systems, which means that like the sensors interior.

Uh, let's say. Well, yeah, but it it's devices forces.

The cheapest one is the Bluetooth, uh, sensors. That you can connect understand the information through a network.

And Bluetooth itself is not a sensor, but you can have a sensor attached to it and the communicate over the Bluetooth.

So these are the. Hard part of it because low power orthodontics is really, really hard.

Okay. Like the one that works in the, uh, digital divide, this digital watch.

They are not working with the mechanical, uh, let's say energy, but you need to power them.

And you see this Casio? Is that ten years battery life?

Can you believe it? And then one voice on you is available and you can use for the next ten years.

And another component is the cloud computing that can for the multiple sensors we are sending in at one place.

It can be a cloud and by the cloud. What can you.

How can you define a cloud or. Are you using any cloud applications in your life?

Probably are using in. And how you can use it.

What is this? Or what's the most common application that you are using as a cloud in your.

In your daily life. Come on.

Any cloud enabled, uh, applications you are using. Yeah.

Perfect. Well, that's. The service.

Yeah. All the services are cloud up. Okay.

Then we need to have some cloud, uh, system in here. Again, that cloud system does not, uh, need to be accessible by all sides.

Like, if you are working in the Ferrari warehouse, probably they will not allow any random people to penetrate to their, uh, their wireless.

Uh, lan. And of course, we have, uh, a lot of, uh, sensors, and the sensors have a lot of data like this kind of chip.

Uh. I thought this kind of cheap cameras, actually.

Um. Yeah, it's kind of cheap cameras.

Maybe working in a 60 frames per second.

And imagine that this is. Let's say one mo 1024 1024.

It may start for a second. You are getting sixth tee times 1811 24 124.

So we have a lot of, uh, uh, data in here.

And this is just for a single sensor. But if you are, uh, collecting.

Let's say, uh, temperature sensor distance sensors.

I don't know, whatever the, uh, audio sensors or, uh, proprioception for the robot.

Um, your, uh, sensor data becomes, uh, larger and larger, and you have to also manage to and evaluate this big data.

And that's why we are sending our data into the cloud rather than, uh, computing locally.

And the last connection, last, uh, uh, component is the network connection.

And all devices in this domain should have an IP.

Why? Because you can reach them. Okay. Now with the, let's say this one, uh, this this command.

Terminal. Okay.

Okay. You know. What is this thing?

What does this thing? I can write any.

Domain name. In here, it will be automatically translated by. DNS for a given domain name, it will generate your IP number, and with that IP number,

you can say that whether this domain name is alive or not like a here you will see.

Now they are sending some, uh, ICP packages.

But somehow yahoo.com is not reachable in here and I don't know what.

Okay. Okay.

You see, I send the 17 packages. And zero packages received and zero packages lost and tribal.

Okay. But you see, I am pinging like I'm sending to message to Google, uh, server and say that.

Okay. Are you alive? And you see, I'm sending 12 packages.

Packages. And all of them are received. So it means that with this computer, this network connection, I can reach, uh, Google, but that not Yahoo.

I don't know why. Okay, so it means that if your robot has an IP, then it's a candidate for to be able to be and part of IoT.

And of course, we have a lot of different kinds of applications.

And, uh. Again, cheap sensors give a lot of options to us to put them on almost everywhere and to get the data.

And, uh, people are going crazy, actually, if you, you know, this, uh, Twitter account or x,

uh, account is called Internet of [INAUDIBLE] and they are releasing some,

uh, super interesting, uh, technologies that doesn't, uh, that shouldn't exist,

but people are putting, uh, screws and put chip in it and making internet of something.

And of course we are not limited to India. And I also have a lot of application in the ambient intelligence.

Have you ever heard this one? Ambient? No.

If you are working in the medical, uh, robotics domain or cloud enabled robotics domain, you will see this one.

This is. Some ambience. The environmental.

The environmental helps you to achieve something. Something.

Some tasks like in the let's say hospital, you are putting some distance answer some movement sensors,

some cameras, and you know that some people are with limited mobile mobility.

If they, uh, they, uh, fall down and it will detect and send a message to the caregivers.

And we have a lot of sub, uh, research areas that IELTS as a not maybe main, uh, technology,

but some supportive technology, uh, robot companion for elderly carers smartwatches.

Uh, that's if you fell down, then it's not much you can send to my message to your caregiver.

And my patient in Germany. Actually she her but one of the grand parents actually just because of Apple's, uh, function.

That if your, uh, heart rate are increasing, super, uh, super fast.

In a short amount of time, it will automatically call, uh. Uh, emergency service.

And by this function, actually, uh, this function saves, uh, her life.

In this sense, I don't I can go in detail, but just believe me that it will work.

Okay, now we are finishing and let's give in for the, uh, 15 minute break.

Then. We will come back.

And if you have a question about your, uh. I don't know their assignments to just calm you down.

It's. So can another student confirm that the assignment deadlines change to 14?

Assignment deadlines change to 1445.

Yeah. It's usually. Uh. So.

So let's start. So in the second session, we will pose some ethical dilemmas together in real life and some dark patterns.

So the first one is comes from these researchers. They are, uh, funded by they got money from, by uh, Facebook at the time not matter.

And they conduct, uh, quite interesting study.

And, you know, in the cognitive science, you have a motion contraction, like you are imitating the emotion that you perceive from the others.

And they did in the super large scale. I guess in, uh, for a 20 year period.

And they say that, okay, we will, uh, put some random, uh, negative posts on the walls of the users.

And initially they expect that the user will post more negative posts or the news.

But they found an opposite effect in here. So now in the paper it's quite long actually.

They have this sentence. Because they use the Facebook user base.

And uh, when you are registering, uh, to Facebook, you have to agree their terms and conditions.

And they say that the data collection part is consistent with the Facebook status.

To which all his users agree prior to creating the an account on Facebook.

So here they believe that this is an informed, uh, consent.

So it means that the the users know the negative or the positive effect of this study.

But you get it. I can. They initially assume that more negative news will encourage users to release more negative news.

But at then they found this is, uh, that has an opposite effect.

Now, my questions to you. Is this an informed consent?

So do you still have an Facebook account? Yes.

Okay. Let's say you are part of this research. But you don't.

What? Do you have an account? So it means that they inform you enough for this research?

Yes. No. Yes.

Come on, guys. Let's get some more noise. Yes! Yes.

No. We do. And what's the difference between legal and ethical land?

Okay. Okay.

You are taking a stance from the, uh, Facebook and between Facebook and you.

But how about this researcher? I mean, they are not employee of the Facebook, I will say, except except the first one.

The second the. Let's say the last one, probably to send your home.

Okay. Is not a Facebook employee. But he is part of this research.

As an HIV researcher, you should agree with this kind of research or you should do.

So. Let's say to send your researcher.

I don't know who he is. How are you as a student?

Okay. I'd say that we have an access to Facebook, Twitter, and we will do this experiment and assign students.

Would you accept it or not? Yes.

No. This.

Okay. Patient. Okay.

This is a Facebook. Yes. Yes.

Facebook. Official data. Exactly like the public release date.

No no no. This is Facebook, Twitter, Facebook.

Collect this data from the users. But users are not aware of.

Or they are doing the experiment. No, no, I am saying that.

Okay. This is the senior researcher, and it's.

He wants to hire you. For replicating this research.

Would you be part of it or not? Yeah.

You got a fish in there? You know, I guess New York.

You took a corner? No, nothing. You know. Cornell University.

Okay, forget about Facebook. Let's say you are working with me.

Um. You want to do a thesis on the topics that performance of the excellence.

And in the converse it says that if you are part of, uh.

Uh, part of, uh, this, uh, course. You already accepted that the data that's from you we will use for our research.

And now I am hiring you. Okay. And I'm giving this data to you.

And as an person, as a researcher, as a designer.

Will you accept this offer or not? If you reject, maybe you will not complete your thesis.

No. You are.

You are a bit too pragmatic in that sense. Okay.

Let's see. Now let's see this.

Uh, this is very, very interesting person. It's is, um, he's an, uh, author of our textbook.

Very, very funny, uh, presentations of learning.

So you should remember this, Robert. We tried them out and nobody ever.

If you remember, remember in the previous, uh, lessons, we said that Gbbo is the one of the failure in the HCI and the social robotics domain,

with a lot of funding, with a lot of, uh, talent, uh, talents, I think.

But let's see, his point of view buys it.

How are we doing? Something wrong? What? What's going on?

Why? Why does nobody ever succeeds with doing this? And the only exceptions are a couple of research platforms.

But then the target market is not the general public.

It is just, you know, research or something using the programming for the experiments, but for consumers.

And not much is happening. So I'll see you guys.

Let's let's have a look at an example. Um, this is the robots we use.

Aware of the robot. Who backed up the tutorial about AI in the Google.

Nobody. Okay. So there's a cute little robot. Um, and it started off as, uh, a, um, a campaign.

Um, so, um, they raised over 3 million USD in this eco campaign to develop this robot at 3 million USD at the initial pass, but.

And it was back to social. It was initiated by Cynthia Buzzell from the MIT Media Lab.

Well, it doesn't get much better than this, does it?

Um, and on top of this, uh, 3 million USD, uh, also venture capitalists jumped on to it through another $60 million.

So 63 million yesterday. It's a lot of money.

We can buy another to look at most, if only this one. And so they had.

Really talented people. So handsome. One of them.

Some of the best researchers in the world. And they even managed to produce a robot.

I think those projects actually fail. And they never deliver anything.

You never get anything. So. So here we have a Cynthia.

Okay. You have money, you have super talented people, and you produce the product.

That's the rest of the story. And that she is super, super famous in Asia domain as a roboticist sitting about this in Brazil in a mountain.

Let's see. Just remember all HLA heuristics.

Okay? Maybe this will be an exam question.

For decades to build social robots. World, and they even both for decades to build social robots and we.

I hope. You know, I'm not having much luck with my videos today.

Sorry. Thank you.

Go. Please introduce yourself. Hi, my name is table first.

Yeah. So, I mean, this is actually, uh, we have we developed, uh,

several prototypes on the road to where we are right now, and certainly, um, we've done testing all along the way.

You know, we very quickly found and this is just reinforces a lot of what I found.

Um, as my work at MIT, people want to treat jibo like a someone, not a something.

And they often, at the end of the interaction would say we'd ask them explicitly, what's the diff between devo and a tablet computer?

And they, you know, they used to own and have a computer. So I said, well, you know, she even fits in like family.

She was part of the family there. She was warm. She was friendly. Um, she both like jibo like a family.

Can you believe it? I can. Can you believe your, uh.

So what's in there? Then the smartphone is part of your family.

Let's go. It was me in response to me. So people were really resonating with the fact that it's a social robot.

So you said a couple of arguments here which are quite valid. What's the difference between Zeebo and a tablet?

Right? That's a very, very fundamental question. And the answer is it fits into the family.

That was the pitch, right? Well, maybe does, maybe doesn't.

Well, anyway, they made it on the cover of the time magazine. So again, how much better does it get your product as an invention?

Best invention of 2017 or the time of the copper?

It doesn't get much to be honest. This one shows that something wrong in the society.

The whole society's. Better than this.

Well that happens is that they actually delivered it, right? They got the product out to the customers and, um, people reviewed it.

And this is what I found. Oh.

Oh, dear. Come on. Thank. So I'm really unlucky with my videos today.

In July 2014,

man did not yet know the dangers of backing just any random Kickstarter or Indiegogo campaign and swimming in childlike naivete and blind optimism.

Over 2500 people backed Jibo, a social robot companion that the creators Jibo Inc.,

promised would do everything from making video calls to reading bedtime stories.

And this was long before the Google Assistant or Amazon Echo existed.

Now, for my part, it was pretty obvious this video was brought to you.

So. What do you guys think I can?

And what happened to the owner of Chico? Did you lose her position?

Or did she go bankrupt or nothing happened to her?

Which one you should expect. Go.

Back up. Okay.

Like. I do.

Actually, she is still doing the research. Okay, so nothing happened to her.

But do you feel that something is wrong? Think about how I, uh.

Uh, um, uh, he just thinks. She all promised a lot at that zero degree.

I mean, you cannot expect that you have an access to all talents, all money.

Even you have a product, but it is failing. Now.

It's hard to live, actually. And this one.

Astro. This is Amazon. Astro.

Okay. It's very recent product, actually. Thank you.

Axtell. One house, one tech friendly family and one eager new robot.

The Amazon Astro wants nothing more than to become a member of the family.

The message is the same. Commander. So people are not learning the lessons.

Both customers and. Okay. Astro.

Out of my way. So is this autonomous bussing or what's on wheels worthy of becoming the next addition to your family?

I did not anticipate that reviewing Amazon's new $1,000, invite only robot was going to cause so much drama excitement.

And I know you can watch this video by yourself, but just check the YouTube comments that I received today.

Actually, it says that this robot is essentially a cup holder for 1000 to, you know.

And they are. And he's right, actually. I don't know, he said. But it looks like he is right in that sense.

Again. I mean, they have money.

They have a lot of talented designer. Even I know someone is working as a designer, was working as a designer in, uh, nostro, but it is also felt.

What is happening? The tech domain.

They know. They don't know their users and looking. Family member and you are creating a robot to be a family member.

It's very, very hard to to, uh, to get lost in the attack, this kind of, uh, well, and I think there is also some moral issues going on.

Okay. So it means that you can be super talented, you can acquire talent.

It's you have a money. At times you can fail miserably in this kind of senses.

Okay, so that's why applying this HCI principles are quite, quite hard.

Even in your, uh, simple projects. And now multiply by 10,000 and generate this kind of product, it will be super challenging.

So if you fail, don't worry. People with $63 million with a military background, they are also failing.

Okay. Anyway, I cannot articulate myself with this.

Uh, this two products, what we can discuss later, or maybe, uh, in the next lecture.

Okay. These are the, uh, two unsuccessful. Unsuccessful, uh, robots.

On the domain. And now let's move in the more digital version of the.

Here we are again. Dark patterns. Dark patterns are opposite of the persuasive technology.

Okay. They are, uh, designed for deceiving you.

Okay. Basically, they are designed to make your life harder by achieving their goals.

Like an accepting cookies, for instance, or accepting, uh, rules and regulations of data website, for instance.

And there are a lot of them. And if you go and check this, uh, website, uh, defective by design.

You will find that there are some, uh, companies are purposely injecting this kind of dark patterns to deceiving data users.

And you will see a lot of them are famous companies that we are using these.

And we will only introduce a few of them. But be aware that they have a lot and people are not super educated in that.

Uh, in that case, the first one is the nagging.

Nagging means that you don't have a no option. Okay, like this is an Instagram, uh, notification, and it wants to push you a notification.

What you can do. In ideal world it will be yes and no.

I want notification or I don't want, but of course Instagram.

Uh uh, Instagram. Uh, developers.

Wants you to give only two options, which is not now, which means that you will receive this message again.

Or okay, I am okay. So at the end of, let's say ten times that you are postponing to doing this, probably one time, you will just say that, okay.

Hack it. That's, uh, accept it. And I use the serverless.

And this one we call it. It's a negging. And learn it.

It may be, uh. It may appear in your exam.

And whatever we are teaching in here. Just learned that pattern.

And one of the examples. Another one is obstruction.

Like you are hiding stuff. Stuff from your user.

And in this case, you, uh, user wants to do limited ad tracking for an.

Uh, some, uh, uh, applications. And you see, iOS is not, uh, allowing it.

Okay. Of course, this is an old, uh, iPhone interface.

Maybe they change it. It's not guaranteed.

You might be and you might. You may still use it.

Like. Ideally, it has to be just in one, uh, or two clicks or the top.

But here you have to go, general. In general, you have to know that it exists in the about in there about it exists in the advertising then.

Turning off them. Yeah. Attacking. Okay.

So basically some actions are available, but hidden from the users.

And another one is the, uh, interface. Uh, the interference.

Like this. At this time, the options are somehow clear.

But by default they are hiding it. I think it's in the sense that here you are seeing the default option is express.

And the other option is a custom solution. But one action is preferred.

Uh, the other one.

So ideally you can go and custom the install and select the folders that you want on land or that you want to allocate your, uh, uh, files in there.

But here is not the logging you. So it means that the interface is there.

Sorry. Interface is interfering actually with your actions.

And we have a lot of, uh. Uh, what's the name?

Deceptive patterns. And most of them are located in this website with examples from famous companies.

Go and check it and check at this. This three. From the lecture.

And learn the definition. And learn.

One. Uh, one. What's the one, uh, example based on this definition?

And do not implement in your design. If they are discovering that you are using some, uh.

Uh, some dart patterns. So you will be downgraded.

Do not put an Easter egg on the. Funny stuff and so be careful about then this one.

And another, uh. Another.

Let's say another problem with this one. This is from Instagram.

And in the first lecture we introduced that the Instagram is founded by the 1 to 2 person, but one of them is HCI user.

So he graduated from. But, uh, maybe you know Washington.

But he took this. Yeah, you already know that.

What's going on in the dark and not to do it. But still, he's allowing to use the dark pattern by his employees.

Soul of the world is very, very. Hard to understand.

You remember our school motto, Understanding Society.

I mean, how we can understand this kind of people. And sometimes, if you are thinking them, it is.

It is becoming super massive. Okay.

The last two ethical dilemma. It is very long to read it.

Please read it for yourself and we will discuss. Okay, so here you are, uh, creating a one application.

And, uh, your aim is to build an inclusive online community, let's say, for gamers or for book lovers.

Let's say. Then your research shows that, okay, it is better to exclude some people from this, uh, inclusive, uh, community.

Yes. Your application. And now I will ask a question about this.

And now you have to decide whether you should exclude some people from this application or whether you should allow it.

Okay. But in your case, it's a book study. So you will allow people who enjoy adult level books.

Yes. No. Okay.

Uh, how about, uh, more extreme cases? Can you help me to.

Given the application is there for a book or, uh, readers, they are funding each other in an online community.

Okay. But I'm asking extreme cases of the kind.

So you will be included all ebook readers.

Science fiction. Romance, I don't know. Up to love.

Everything okay? Okay, let's be a bit, uh, provocative.

