[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
When a small band approaches the big like the big.

Swing it over the mouth and tightens to heat, heating wires to seal and cut off the back, which drops into a fresh back into place.

But wait, how does the smoke in the find a big one? Where's the key to.

If you've been watching closely, you might have noticed a flaw next week.

Who uses but flooring the strip in the middle? Well and everyone leaves and lights goes off.

This is what it looks like. We embedded LED strips on the floor and placed downward facing cameras.

Then we told them to follow the light. So my program, the light trail.

We can guide the birds one by one. Stretch of the light of fresh.

All right, everyone. That's it for this video. Ever since we set up, this is the review for haunted every day.

Thank you so much for watching. Okay, so this is a bit related to today's lecture, but you see.

It is. A lot of effort goes on this video and it's quite a nice piece of engineering.

Some of the students, uh, for instance, designed, uh, freshman.

But it's not mobile. Maybe that will give you an idea for the next semester for your robot design project.

And, uh, in this uh, uh, uh, lecture, we want to introduce, uh, human robot interaction.

And that would be or so last third that you actually, we are here.

So we are approaching an eternal semester. And just so.

Maybe we can, uh. Switch this to like next week.

We can do example of you on the switch. The last topic.

But I still didn't decide in case I change my, uh, schedule in here.

Then we will, uh, solve the exam question next week, and I will let you know, uh, by email.

And for the next. This week's practical, we will do freestyle, uh, design, uh, design stuff.

Uh, from your projects, you can bring your, uh, low fidelity prototype, maging fidelity prototype, or even high fidelity prototype that we will there.

And you will, uh, raise your hands and we will ask, uh, will last question and we will you we will ask for your, uh, uh, questions.

So, um, for your, uh, third assignment, that is an alternatives.

I will read, uh. Until Thursday.

Danny, you will have the one session with me if you have a questions that you can ask.

And we will have to revise your grades. Okay.

We will start with the, uh, video and let's continue with the video.

But we will not search all of them. And this is darling.

And she is one of the excellent pioneer in the human affective human robot interaction.

Um, she's synthesis with the creating the relationship between humans and robots.

And of course, emotions play a lot of a role.

But in this lecture we cannot go in detail. And this is very, very interesting.

Uh, and interesting, interesting video. Okay.

To see that. Okay. How we can extend our HCI in robot interaction knowledge into the real applications,

like sex robots, like, uh, robot companions and this kind of interactive scenarios.

And now let's go to the Or today's lecture.

And if you remember during the first, uh. Week we mentioned that.

Robots are computers too. Why? Because there is an literally computer embedded in all robots to manage the input and output processing.

And we will consider the same interaction flow that we did with the computers, with robots.

Like, we will have a task that can be a teaching children a second language.

And in here children will interact with the robot,

and the application implemented on the robot will allow that interaction and achieve the common goal.

Okay. So for the example for instance.

You might write robot instead of computer in here. If the application I love if application is interactive and robots is behaving,

uh, in the environment by changing some aspect of, uh, aspects of the environment.

So you can write robot to here to. And we say robots, and we will say a lot of things about robots.

But first we need to define what robotics is.

And what's the robot that you are referring to? This, um, this, uh, lecture.

Robotics is a research field, and the goal of the, uh, this field is to creating an intelligent connection between the perception and action.

Do you remember? What is perception from the previous lecture? Yes.

No. What's the difference between the sensors?

Sensor readings and, uh, perception? That would be a fantastic question.

You want to structure this? Is that that, uh.

It's, uh, sensor you can consider as a raw information, okay, that you are acquiring from your, uh, a camera.

But, uh. Information. That's, uh.

So. Meaning meaningful information that you can extract from that camera.

It becomes your perception. Okay. Like here.

Let's see. Okay.

This computer has a sense of you which this computer has a sense of.

And here you are seeing me.

If you process this information and detect my face's face in here, then you will, uh, get the perception for your robot or for your.

So the difference between is the raw information versus the meaningful one.

Of course, meaning can change from the application to application.

Like for the basic uh robotic vision task, it can be recognising the faces for the house uh keeping robots.

It can be recognising the items in the kitchen, for instance. Um or goal as a roboticist.

We have to create a connection between the perception and action. And that's what robots are doing.

And that is the field of robotics. But to say that one item, whether it's in the robot or not, we have to consider this five.

Features. Five item has to exist on the robot and the first one is the body.

And we will consider here the physical body, but it can be also simulated one.

But in this lecture we will consider a physical body. Another one can be a sensor.

Camera can be a distance. Sensors. And can be a touch sensor that you can interact with the robot.

And the third thing is the actuator actuator basically is a component that gives your robot to perform an action.

And most case or, uh, actuators are motors.

And next semester you will see a lot of details about the motors that we can use for the robots.

So. If you are calling yourself a roboticist, then you have to pay super detailed attention to do to this two sensor actuators.

Remember, your goal is to create a link that has to be intelligent.

Between the connection between the sensors and the actuators.

And here we also have a controller. Controller? Is that somehow a brain of the robot?

Um, the, uh, what control is, uh, control is to get the sensory information.

Process it, then create an action for your robot.

So you can consider this. This is the brain of the robot. And of course a robot has to exist in the environment.

So oftentimes, uh, submitted robot is not good for the human robot interaction.

And this robot has to perform some function. Can be an object recognition or manipulation or locomotion in the environment.

To interact with the human or the other robots. And this is the robot that, uh, robots that I took, uh, their videos one from another.

And this robot is the. It's an anthropomorphic robot, like a full bodied anthropomorphic robot.

And, uh, it is, uh, dancing.

And it's called the Japanese ideology.

So Kawasaki is creating this kind of robot for entertainment.

And here is our famous and all of it. And you will see.

This robot is, uh. Getting in a camera image, processing it and recognising the face.

So by definition, in here we are creating the intelligent connection between the action and perception.

And here are the two examples of this definition.

So we can call this to. Let's say this to agents as a robot for them.

But now a question. Maybe it can be also in the exam.

Do you think your coffee machine is a robot? Yes.

The one that you are using in the algorithm. Some of these.

Or your car. Or your bicycle.

Okay, because they do not pay. They only, uh, activate.

Uh, they got the states, uh, because. Uh.

They don't have a controller. They don't have. I mean, they are not unintelligent.

Perspective and action. Okay. Why? Why?

Why? They are not intelligent. You.

Can you give an example? Are 19,000. Maybe tell it to another person.

Okay. Issue another person. And that's why your coffee machine is not a robot.

And why the interaction between. Uh.

Your coffee. You and your coffee machine is not that old.

Because we care about the environment. So basically it can be anywhere.

Exactly. Yeah.

That's true. Yeah.

That's true. With some conditions.

That is error problem. It is not a robot that we can define autonomous robot.

But there are some aspects of this machine can show us.

It's a robot. Why? Because they have a body. They exist in their environment.

There you have a sense of the temperature of the water. Okay.

Because if, uh, it reaches some, uh, uh, certain degree of the temperature, then they will stop.

But they don't have an actuator here. Why? Because you need to work, and you need to put the, uh, input for that, uh, robot.

Controller yet they have a minimal. Controller. Okay.

Controlling the temperature of the water. Environment. Yes. Function.

Yes. Still, we cannot say that they are robots.

Okay. They are not intelligent. Why?

Because. For all the customers that are going to Albertine, it will give the certain degree of the water,

certain degree of coffee for the selected, uh, option. It will give the same couple for you.

But let's say I don't like my coffee at, uh, at something that I like, uh, 75.

So it cannot detect my face and create an option for me.

So that's why oftentimes you are not saying that they are about. Sorry.

So through the camera in the coffee machine, which will be detecting faces at the base of the faces, it will make a coffee that will be zero.

That will be one option to be able. But for instance, if you put on the, uh, I will come to you.

Yeah. If you put on that coffee machine like that,

the one that they did for the trashman and it is walking around and it detects me and said, hey, what do you like a coffee today?

And I will say, no. Then it will, uh, move to, uh, to another person.

The dancing won the. So you that really.

Why not? It doesn't detect a loss face, but the face is just one function.

I'm getting there. Okay, fantastic.

What do you. What a fantastic question. Why? It is intelligent. Okay. What is you see in here?

This, uh, Japanese item. Okay.

It's. It is dancing without any strings attached.

It can balance itself. I thought it was following.

No, no, no, it is, uh, you get stuff like them and you see, and it's very hard, probably actually, for the robots, uh, uh, balancing robots for, uh.

It's like, does it does the same thing over and over again?

It's it's safe. That's right. Okay. The in this video that uses the same dance.

Okay. But in reality, if you are first the robot, then it can avoid you.

Okay. So if you change the region, for instance, you can generate a different type of, uh, dancing stuff.

So if it's if it's a robot who starts dancing, dancing it.

The robots does the same thing. And then we can.

If it's doing the same thing over, over again, we can set it as an automation.

They are still robots, but they are automated from there. They may not be intelligent.

That's makes sense. No.

Okay, we'll come to this one. This is the philosophical part of this stuff.

Okay. What's the robot? What's the agent? What is that stuff? But, uh, for you, if you see this, it's six of them exists in the item.

You can call it robot. And in the exam if you have some arguments that.

If I show off this one and you are seated, this is not a robot. Then you have to write your reasoning.

And if I agree with you, you will get the point. Cool now or a lecture is about human robot interaction, not fear.

Robotics. Because pure Robotics is. Uh, acting.

Acting in the environment to manipulate it.

I can imagine that there is one, uh, one, uh, card company and it is, uh, automating it, as is about to assemble the cast.

To manipulate them, but I got put, uh, picking the one object and putting it in one place and screwing it, and that becomes a robotics.

But for the human robot interaction, we have an inner part of it.

And oftentimes if you include a human, you should consider this some social rules okay.

Like here we have an Asimo. Of course this is a bit old example.

Asimo is now or almost don't exist at this stage.

All the time about anyone existed, but we are not seeing.

Previously it was super famous, a robot and only a few robot companies have Asimo.

But currently, thanks to the Chinese companies. Okay.

We, uh, have a €10,000. Uh, humanoid robots that exceed the capabilities of the Asimo.

But the idea is in here. You see, the Asimo is bringing some coffee to you.

And it is just putting on the table on the desk.

But here we are seeing the pepper robot is. Interacting with the human.

Okay. Like, uh, showing some distance.

It's not super close to the rope. Uh, to the human. Um, it shows some gestures.

So in this case, we can say that Asimo is the robot. And it belongs to robotics.

But here. Paper robots, and within this application it belongs to human robot interaction.

Why? Because it has a social component. So this is an exam question.

You see, this is the, uh uh uh. Green, uh, text.

And that will be an exam question. Okay.

And why we did this, uh, kind of social, uh, part of the social part of the.

Of the interaction. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.

Like, we can employ the Asimo and it can perfectly manage to execute the task, but we need the more social robots in here.

The reason is if you deploy the robots into human society, almost all interaction has some connection with this being social.

Like here we are in the social environment.

Why? Because you have some distance to the, uh, to to the next student.

And this is called calculus. And we will introduce it, but.

We will assume that all interactions, almost all interactions with robots, uh, will require some social sociality.

Um, to achieve this, uh, social, uh, part, we need some, uh, concepts for robots.

Like, robots should be intelligent. Like after delivering the, let's say, coffee in here.

He should, uh, pay attention. And, uh. Uh, try to initiate a dialogue between the human and, uh, this robot.

It's going to be multimodal modality here.

There is a sense of like maybe vision only tasks will be limited in their social work, but you may need some touch.

Okay, let's say you have an robot, which as a tennis coach.

And of course, for the future vision, it may generate some juice for you.

But after each strike, if it says that, okay, it's a good job.

Then we will, uh, need to make a robot and, uh, in a multimodal setting.

And the robot has to be able to display their emotions or understand their emotions.

Because without emotions, the social parts are quite, uh, both or limited.

And they have to be embodied, which means that they have to have an.

Body. Physical body. Otherwise interactions.

Yeah, they might have some benefits, but in this case they cannot be as useful as the robot.

And they should also have some design aspect, like if you are flying, uh, drones over, uh, over, uh,

children over a child, then if something going on and malfunction on this robot, it shouldn't damage this.

So we have a lot of aspects in here. And the one thing that we should consider in here is that all of us here are products like a health.

If you imagine that this robot is just randomly navigating in the environment, okay, without paying attention to this lost child.

So in this case, we cannot ask. We cannot say that this robot is an, uh, good robot for human robot interaction, like the one that we have in here.

Uh, Simona, queen of [INAUDIBLE] robots. You see in.

These two robots are not productive. They are not up to execute the task.

Yes, she wants to put the lipstick in, but the robot puts lipstick.

But in an ugly way, let's say. So that's why we cannot say that these are a good example for the, you know, robot interaction.

So interaction exists, but they are not, uh, an example of the high.

And why it matters. This is if you are interested in robotics.

Actually just read this paper. It is written though it's a bit old, but still they have some good points of sexual in it.

Say that for the next ten years this kind of research fields on robotics will become popular.

And if you are a career researcher, pay attention to this study. And if you choose a random one, definitely you will find them.

One application that can be used for human robot interaction like robotics or security.

Yeah, you might have one, uh, robot that interacts with your children, but.

It can not interact in a random way, or it cannot interact in the same way that it can interact with the adult.

So we should think about the ethics part of the this applications social interaction is purely medical robots.

Oftentimes they are, uh, celebrated.

Okay, you can be in a different country and there won't be a one Da Vinci robot in here, and it will operate in your, uh, in your body.

So it's not that social part of it, but still human component is in that.

So that's why it will be. Yeah. Listening will be interaction with the human will be important part of in this area.

And you can extend to robots worms like you will have in uh in the concept for instance.

Yeah. You see there are some, uh, applications in the concerts.

Uh, a lot of drones, they are flying and they are changing their shape.

And now imagine that you are doing the same thing in here, but you will clap and the drones will come to you,

or you will show some signs and drones will form that sounds that you show this.

So definitely you can find some, uh, application in the human domains for this audience and some quite interesting paper.

Please read it. Uh, if you are interested in the robotics.

And of course, when we say that human interaction, it's not completely on the train or in the, in the, uh, in the,

let's say on the surface, on the surface of the Earth or in the environment or in the classroom, it can be some extreme conditions to.

And one example is in here. Now we can say that, okay.

What kind of human interaction is this? Okay. They are, uh, doing, uh, joint task to fixing something.

But in reality, this robot can, uh, process some nonverbal gestures.

Okay. For instance, for scuba diving. Some gestures are, uh.

Uh, some gesture means, uh. Uh, certain, uh, actions.

And that's why this robot can, uh, process this, uh, gestures.

And we can say that this is, um, for example. Okay.

Does it make sense to start again? A robot is processing non-verbal behaviour off to humans and generating an action.

Well, that's why we can call it the same example. Okay.

Now. I guess you see already this video. But sometimes.

We should think about that. Okay. We are taking a robot. Whether it is good to enter in the real world or not.

So we should be super careful about it because we have some horror stories.

And one of them. This one you already know. Here.

Uh, this robot is deployed in, uh, Japan, you know, one shopping mall,

and you'll see some children's, uh, children become super, super aggressive towards the robot.

So often times you are thinking that, okay, we know or user base and we know they,

uh, their needs if they deploy or robots and they will behave in a productive way.

But in reality that doesn't happen. So you see this.

Robots are become this human. Human beings to become super aggressive.

Again if we need to, uh, design a robot.

So we should consider, okay, the extreme behaviour of the humans towards the, uh, force of a robot.

And another one is this Hitchbot. This is a robot that you can, uh, stop by and put in your car, and the robot will say that.

Okay, I want to go. Uh, Berlin. And then you will say that, okay, I cannot put you in Berlin, but I will put you in the.

I don't know that one, for instance. Then from the come another, people will pick this robot and put it in and take it to a valley.

And this is Berlin, by the way. And this is a robot.

So basically each I think for the, uh, reaching its own destination.

I don't know if you already see this one, but not much.

What happened to this robot is a bit, uh, upsetting, actually, when I, uh, read the, uh, news, uh, about it.

It was damaging my understanding about the human society.

You will see this robot is safely moving from one country to another.

Okay, I guess the original roboticist designed this robot is from Canada.

And the robot successfully moved to Canada, Germany and Netherlands.

But once you get rich to us, then, uh, robot becomes, uh.

None non-functional at all. It's actually like a the they they move, it's, uh, it's arm and even take the updates that'll.

So again, if you are watching this, you should be aware that's extreme uh, interaction or behaviour of the human society.

That's why robotics are, uh, quite hard actually.

And most of the robotics roboticists are not interested in the deploying the robots in the social environment.

If they, uh, the robots uh, workflow in the love or the limited uh, uh, real world and they will be happy.

Okay. Cool.

Okay then. Let's see. Of course we are interested in the HRA, but that's not this kind of HRA that's can lead to damage of a robot.

We are more interested in the HRA, in the HRA robots that can create a symbiotic relationship between us,

like, uh, your, uh, smart, uh, what you said, uh, what your smartwatch is doing.

I can show some behavioural data from you.

Again, the heart rate variability and the other stuff and what you are doing for the so what we are or this uh,

uh, variable, uh, the wise you are putting charge.

So there is a symbiotic relationship between you and the, your uh, vegetables and what we want to achieve the same thing in the robots.

And to do this. To do this, we need some guidance. Okay.

We cannot just create a random robot and expect that that will be a part of our life.

And the relationship that we have with him is, uh, is, uh, productive.

And what we need to consider. First, we need to consider the form.

Form is that whenever you look at robot, what kind of robot is this based on its shape?

Here we have a different dimension of what can be.

A robot with random shapes that doesn't look like, okay, what you are, uh, what you can, uh, see in the real life.

Biomorphic means that it is resembling some animal or some living being.

Uh uh, for anthropomorphic means that it looks like a human.

Okay. And for this robot we often times called zo morphic.

Because at first glance, when you see this kind of robot, it does look like an, uh, bird, although it doesn't have a wing and it cannot fly.

So here we can see that it's about morphic or what modernity means that the

model of interaction in how many ways that this robot can interact with you.

It can be verbal. It can be nonverbal. Or it can be special.

I can, uh, to keep the distance between you. And that is important, actually.

Social norms. Whether this robot can, uh, follow the social norms.

Social norms can be. Waving away like an if somebody is waving to you.

Oftentimes you are also waving to him. This can be also.

Keeping distance. You are talking to you so you are not allowing to.

Let's say not call. It is becoming super close to you.

More talking while talking. This is this kind of stuff that belongs to social norms.

Autonomy is different, and almost 90% of the AI robots are not autonomous.

Which means that if you create a robot that behaves autonomously in the social world, you can be rich.

I'm not joking. If you achieve this bond, you can be rich.

But currently, we don't have this kind of, uh, robots around and that we can deploy in our daily life.

Okay. Interactivity is also changing in the level by level, but you can say that okay,

you can understand some casual behaviour, like if you clap it, it means that the robot achieved a good thing.

Okay, so it can create a link between your, uh, social behaviours to uh, uh, the, uh, the output.

And this robot actually designed by one of our students. And she created this robot for, uh, obstacle avoidance.

Like, if you are coming closer to the robot, robot distracted avoiding you and it straight and.

Like in bird bird songs. And this is, uh, another type of robot that was called kismet.

It's developed in MIT, and this is the one of the first robot.

Exist in the literature. But one important function of this robot.

It has only, um, what's in a hat?

It can display some emotions, but fixed emotions. Like a surprise.

Like I discussed, like an, uh, fear. And it doesn't have a full body.

And from here, that robot, that from here to here, that robot doesn't exist.

And it is super expensive at that time.

Only one lab had this robot, but with current prototyping tools everybody can access and, uh, 3D printers can generate this kind of robotics.

So that is, uh, a bit important because, uh, we want to create a robot which is accessible by.

The, uh, by the population, okay. By you, basically, you can create or work or, uh, do research on it.

So that was the problematic part of this kind of robots and.

Uh, consider that it is 30 years old. Now we have a different type of property and this is the keep on robots.

It is. Uh. You can't.

And it's that keeping a robot, it's currently not developed. It is created by, uh.

Uh, professor in, uh, in, uh, Japan. Uh, what's his name?

I forgot his name, but. Cosima.

Yeah. Awesome. His name and they have some version of it.

So you can find it on eBay. And if you find it, just let me know and I want to buy it.

And it is created for the human child interaction, actually. For the autistic spectrum disorder or the other, the individuals has this condition.

And another one. This is a I know this is what a famous, uh, cognitive robot developed in Italy.

It's a European project, but again, it is super limited, and not everyone can host or buy this kind of robot.

I get my PhD on this robot, but it was super, super expensive, like a for a single arm.

We gave almost half €1 million for uh, for fixing and it.

But now, thanks to again some Chinese companies. Okay, you can buy your own humanoid robot.

That I can assure single function that I call the test, and it is just platform for actually purely working on cognitive robotics.

Like you will observe some behaviour in the human or babies, and you will model it in computationally and implement on this robot.

Again. It's super expensive. And we have a different types of robots.

Uh, still, it is anthropomorphic. It also morphic.

This is all morphic. And we have a tool.

Two agents in here. Okay, one is actual human. One is a robot.

You can distinguish which one is robot. Yeah. And this is, uh, Jim Benoit.

It's not called humanoids. Humanoids? Humanoids of Chicago. Some.

And, uh, he is a bit, uh, it's not that he is super talented on designing, uh, robots with the need for.

And the. He is, for instance, interested in the culture and the culture of the creator almost for the cultural, cultural, cultural events.

Like here, it's for, uh, museum, uh uh museum, uh, robot here it's robot for affection.

Okay. And he a robot for, uh, some human interaction.

And with this one, these are the some of stand up comedian like people in Japan.

But in a more serious sense. And then what he wants, he wants to, uh, replicate the same appearance.

Why? Because. Japanese hyper ageing society.

So that's why instead of creating an, uh, robot of instead of an employee and a human to do a one job,

they are creating the robot to do the same thing, especially in the assistive robotics domain.

They are very witty and successful.

Um, the one thing that I need to mention, this one, uh, this, uh, she was, um, one of, uh, asked and actually, who works with me for the internship?

Um, for the master's degree. So for the bachelor's degree, uh, thesis.

Now he's a master student of, uh, student. And probably he will do that and, uh, he will do an, uh, a PhD in there.

So if you are interested, we can discuss about it.

But you have to show some interest and some output. Then we can create a link between you and, uh.

Uh, that, uh, previous students that you can have some, uh, options in Japan to.

Do you understand what I'm saying? Okay, cool. And I will give you a lot of clues, actually, for and throughout this.

This stuff. And if you do a PhD with, uh, this kind of pioneering effects in robotics.

Definitely. It will open a lot of doors for you.

Okay. We have an, uh. It just the basic robots for the human robot interactions.

But in reality, it's a quite diverse topic, and we can find in almost any type of robots for different tasks, different user base.

Like here we have if you have robots. I don't know the function of this robot.

We also have an in the in our apartment. It is super expensive, like a €25,000.

And the only thing that it can do is you can project a face on it and it can do some, uh, nonverbal gestures.

It's overkill for that price, but that will be an opportunity for you if you create a robot with the same function with the lower price,

definitely you can compete with them and they will like your robot. This Cosmo a bee toy.

It can teach, uh, children to arithmetics. And this is the third ticket.

Imagine that you have a cat and she gets split. And this is, uh, created by my colleague and a friend from Delhi.

They created this type of robot for, uh, for touch based interaction.

And I can imagine that there's a particular stuff, like a you are putting a cat instead of cat,

you are petting a robot, and this robot can adapt to your, uh, style.

Is it okay? Okay. The more pet you than the more it will purring or bad data sound.

Okay. It's very interesting, but still a bit expensive.

Like 5000, €1,000. And they have a quite interesting, uh.

I can show up during the break actually their video.

And here also we have some exoskeleton that operated soft toy like robots that can you can find in the museum.

And this is the, uh, drone coach you will do in your daily jogging with robots, and robot will move in front of you to encourage you raise.

And these are also robots for, uh, human robot interaction.

And it is, uh. It is. Uh, this tool was actually one of the success stories in human robot interaction, the most purchased.

But unfortunately, the company is closed and they are not, uh, they are not thinking to refurbish this, uh, robot.

Uh, to put a nought. And these are the robots we have in the lab.

So you are welcome to use it. But you need some training.

And you need to be a bit serious, actually. So it's not the trial and error stuff.

So just check it and if you like one of them. And then you can ask me or.

So work with this kind of problem. And we have a some strange, strange, uh, policy in the, in our lab, whatever we have.

And as a big robot, we should also and smaller version of it, like we have an, uh, one the three, uh, go uh,

this is the, uh, big dog, and we also purchased the smaller version of it, or we are creating a smaller version of it.

And if you want to be a part of it, just check.

Uh, first is my publication, and then we can create some, uh, research line together.

It can be a human robot interaction just for robotics. Whatever you want to do.

Okay. And we see a lot of different types of robots.

But now this is the one of the interactive, uh, interface actually you can click.

You can see a lot of. But what's in here? Let's see.

Uh. Which one? Okay.

That's is. It's, uh, you know, like Android's, uh, from probably from Sugar Sons.

Uh, and we. Also have a snack box.

I don't know what to do of it. And if you have a free time, just go and check this website and you will find a lot of different types of robots.

And you can see that, uh, which one is interesting for you that.

Then we can, uh. You know, we can, uh, work together. Okay.

We have, uh. Almost finished. Uh, yeah.

This session. Do you have any questions for remaining?

Three minutes. No. Discussing.

But let me ask you one random question. What kind of robots that you need for your life?

That's it for a three minutes. Let's discuss about it.

So I have a robotic company and you are my user and I am doing an interview and talking to you as a student.

What kind of robots that you want in your life? Be as imaginative as possible.

Nobody knows. Euro bistro.

Well it's just. You knew she went.

New or none of it just came a new one.

Yeah. Oh, okay. Okay, okay.

Yeah. This is the, um, the company commentators in the US, but previously it was in, uh, Norway.

And, uh. It was previously on the robotics.

I believe robotics. And one of my students in, uh, Balinese.

Uh, yeah. Former, uh, one company, one of my students in the above him.

He is currently a technical lead in here. So that might be another connection for you.

And this Robert Gates is good with design and good implementation, but most of the demo that you are seeing is duplicate.

It's all I can. Who was the.

Very often you're looking to get. Like you see this kind of stuff?

Our robot is not autonomous. Sorry to get misleading, but if you read the description.

They are. In video, they are less emphasising it.

Okay. So. And the first is in currently, if you want to buy it, you need to pay €300 deposit.

But once you go in mass production, you can have, I guess, less than 20 K for this room and the function of the support will be quite limited.

They are doing this kind of, uh, initial customer contact for collecting the data.

And the more data they collect from you, from your, uh, household, then their model will get better.

And you will have this robot. Hopefully. In some ways.

Okay news. But what does? You don't need to name the robot.

Just imagine the one on the throne. I don't know. From Star Wars from.

Or it doesn't exist. Just tell me the function. Come on.

I want to design a rover for you and be not. Okay.

So just be careful and the future is going in that direction.

And robotics will be bigger than today.

No, the design is. From what?

From fabric. Yeah. Not in the upper. Because then it doesn't get dirty.

It's much easier. Yeah, that are some of the stuff that you cannot get families that.

I don't know what is actually the reasoning behind, but there you can see that.

Okay. Just. Maybe it's a cost perspective that makes us.

If you imagine that this robot has a. Oh.

What is this? Yeah, this robot is completely plastic yet?

And if it is broken. Then you need to go to places.

Okay. But imagine that it's just a like things. And give just a skeleton of the robot and they will change the clothes.

So that's part of this problem, probably because it's more solid.

It's this one. No. You know, this one is, uh, if you do this, one cannot do the same thing that Neil can do.

But anyway, I will check in detail and we can discuss that. I was the only one that was.

And they said that this was for the social standards. The.

Okay. So it was more. Okay, now that can be like a name, like the most exotic that can be.

There are many domains and believe it or not, robotics robots are, um, are not very much concerned about this kind of design issues.

Okay, so if you have a base and experience in the design, you can definitely contribute to the robot design system.

And this is the fukkit. Yeah. You can take a break.

And in 45 minutes beat. It's.

They have a nice, uh, customer.

And. So actually, this robot is built by just a single person.

This guy. I don't know how to read Chinese, but very talented engineer.

And to be honest, if he has a Kickstarter campaign or other stuff, I will definitely, uh, paid for, uh, having this robot.

And he's super interested in the robotics. And he opened up one company.

It's called AGI bot. And now that company is actually a rising star in the humanoid robots.

And you will see. This kind of robot. Actually, he is now building he and his team.

But again, it's possible. And with the available tools that we have currently, like a 3D printing, some other prototyping tools, definitely.

It can be done in here too, but not at that level of professional.

But we can start. So we'll just give you some, uh, initial motivation if you are interested.

I am also interested. Just let me know. Okay.

Let's go. And I finished their. Second part of.

It's okay. Now we just introduced to what is H3 and what are the what type of the robots that we are using in the H3.

And since it is somehow related to interaction and we said that we can replace robots, can replace computer with robots.

So we also need some design heuristics, design paradigms and design, uh, patterns for the right.

And it is quite still in the infancy, like the one that we have in the user interface.

Design does not exist in the HRA. But the field is progressing and definitely there will be some more room and more advanced products.

So. So first we need to.

Design or robot? Yeah. What kind of robot? That we want. First it has to be interactive.

And the robot is hardware real and can be super, super hard for us to come up with some, uh, some, uh, random, uh, methodology, okay.

To put all the listening device in a trash bin and shake it enough, and the one robot will appear so that things, uh, does not exist.

But what we need to do, actually, if you are new, of course you have to do do try an error.

And we call this kind of approach as a truncation approach.

Use whatever you have and compile it, assemble it, and then you will have a function robot.

And of course that truncation approach will not work in uh uh, all settings and will not work in the for some other um users.

And in next semester you will do this kind of robots.

Okay, just be ready for it. And it will not be super, super advanced.

But definitely you can use your creativity and your design skills and the your, uh, programming skills to this, uh, of course.

And the one that you learn in the HCI will be definitely useful for the next time in the autonomous systems.

And that's my goal to actually to make this course as a continuation of one after another.

Then you will get some experience in one and apply to the other in the hardware domain, rather than the interface in the digital domain.

And in the HRA. Actually, you can also follow the order of a famous Caesar centred design approach.

Okay, but the thing that in the first session I did okay, what kind of robot that you need?

Because I know that you are a student, you are a CSS student and you are belong to one profile.

And if I get enough data from you, then I can decide, okay, I will create a one robot and design it.

And it might be useful for the most of our student.

Of course it will be free, so nobody will need to pay me for this one.

But just be aware that instead of doing truncation approach like somehow we are doing in here, we can also use our user centred design approach.

It's not common, but uh, some big companies are trying to invest in it, like one company from Spain for robotics.

They have, uh, some designer position among, uh, a few companies in the US.

I know they are opening, uh, opening some position in the design. Design is just an interaction design.

Okay. So definitely your profile will be a match.

What they want. And doing.

Of course, instead of creating something from scratch, uh, we will be.

In a good position that if you know what exists in the literature previously and why some products, uh, failed, uh, in the previous,

uh uh uh, delivery, then we can get some inspiration and build a new specifications for a robot and enter the market.

Or the answer our user needs. And it's very hard job. So again, we are saying that robots can do task repeatedly.

And you will see still it is 2024. So it's 25.

We are using robots in a third operated way. Okay.

So it is hard. But of course the field is progressing and a lot of investment are, uh, entering the market.

So it will be quite easy to achieve this. Um, on delivery of previous promises, uh, in the next, let's say, ten years.

And the first principles or first, uh, heuristics that we will follow is form follows function.

Okay. Like in here. What you are seeing.

That, uh, object is a trash bin. And this is the one of the earliest version of the trash bin in Japan.

And we call this kind of, uh, items in the literature as raw object.

Okay. A daily life, objects that, uh, dispose some, uh, robots.

This behaviour. And that can be a nice, uh, project for the next year.

And here also, we have a one, uh, a robot called. I don't remember its name, but, uh, from the robotics.

And you will see, it's super, super simple. And that you can not be more minimalist than this one.

You have a one mobile base and you have a one stick and one manipulator.

Then you can pick and place some object from the mobile to the upper shelf.

And again if you. See just this one.

Okay. You can easily infer that this robot has some functionality for trash bin collection.

Uh. Trash collection? Yeah. Why? Because it is form in place.

Some function. Does it make sense? Okay.

Like here. She credits Jerry.

Noid.

And if you see this, you notes, you can easily infer that whatever it is, a biological counterpart is doing, this gem node should be able to do it.

Of course not in a perfect way. And that's why the form of this robot is hyper hyperrealistic humanoid.

And that's why we are calling that this is the one of the important, uh.

Uh, important. Idea for, uh, should AI researchers.

Designers. Your form of, uh, the robot should imply its function.

Okay. Okay. This is the video that you can, uh, you already see.

And another. Uh, yeah. I think the form and function, uh. It's okay.

And another, uh, design promise, a design, uh, uh, heuristics in there.

Uh, it's under-promise and overdeliver. Okay.

If you have a one product, it's better to not say that this product can achieve everything that you need, such as a such thing doesn't exist.

So what you can do okay to. Say that I will design or this robot is designed for this kind of, uh.

Uh, tasks, but it can be expanded later. Like here you are seeing the drone in.

This is the underwater drone. And it looks like an octopus.

And people are using this robot for the seabed sampling. Okay.

It's very, very hard problem.

I see about something, but the technology that you develop in here later can be used for the, uh, some surgery, surgical robots.

That you would put, uh, I don't know, this, uh, uh, octopus tentacles.

And on. At the end you will have some seizures and you can basically do surgery inside of things.

Okay, so you promise wanting all underwater locomotion but you can use this robot for.

Medical setting to. Okay. Does it make sense?

Okay. So promise a few things, but over deliver for you, Robert.

And this robot is actually from my PhD supervisor, Laski.

She's now in, uh. Uh, Singapore. Just, uh, check her name, and you will.

You will be inspired by her work a lot. Another thing is the overlapping with the, uh, this one overlapping, uh, with the this one.

But if you have a one, uh, one interaction.

It should be extended, or it's better to be extended in a different way.

Okay. Like the one that we mentioned, that if you have an octopus robot that you are sending for the seabed, something.

Done. You can also use the same technology for the medical robotics.

So it is very hard to achieve it. But over time, if you are working in the same platform, then you will get used to what the, uh, it's capable of it.

Then if you collaborate with people with other domains, then they will say that, okay,

that is, uh, working super robustly in the seabed, in the underworld in some cases.

And why not? We are extending the same function on the on the medical cases.

Again, it's hard, but it can, uh, you can do it. The.

Other one is the don't mix the metaphor. It can be a bit counter-intuitive.

Uh. Uh. If you consider the other three method three heuristics here.

If you are doing a one, uh, robot, let's say it's a child like robot.

Then it is behaviour has to be, uh, has to involve some childlike features.

Okay. Let's say it has to be big cat with small eyes.

Oh, sorry. With a small, uh, had with the big eyes, for instance.

And, uh. Again, it is a bit hard to, uh, do this one because we need to a lot of, uh, interdisciplinary,

uh, uh, interdisciplinary research for, uh, for us, like, you will see this I covered about.

And it is something like this. It's very, very small. And it can generally cannot work, uh, by itself, usually.

I think the one strength and the and not the magic.

But in reality, if you see this, uh, I think it is very cute, like a big eyes with some, uh, functionality.

And it implies that, okay, whatever you are seeing on the robot can be done with the, uh, human, uh, child to.

And, uh, based on this. For metaphor, uh, heuristics.

Just read this one and this is an exam question. I know it is quite, uh, long to read it, but expect this kind of questions.

And the answer of this, uh, question, uh, might be differ.

Different than the one that I am showing here. If you elaborate.

Well, based on the huge stuff that you have in here. I will accept it.

Okay, but let's first read it. Please buy yourself.

Then we will discuss, uh, and the answers to this.

Finish. Okay. So what we are saying in here, there is a professor, surprisingly called the speaker,

not related to Jacomo speaker, and he created a new type of robot and he's giving it an interview name.

Um. You know, let's see, uh, scientific, uh, magazine.

And what do you say? That you will see this eight armed humanoid robots.

There is something going on in here. Many problems with octopus tentacles.

Okay. In every home soon. Okay.

So basically, he's creating a robot to be deployed in the kitchen.

But the form of the robot is humanoid with eight tentacles.

Like Doctor Octopus in this Spiderman. And the.

He's saying that people will accept a robot as a social member of the society, rather than articulate the artefact.

I like that robot will not be super, uh, social with, uh, household members.

Then it will not be as just another coffee machine. It will be a member of the member of your family.

So another thing is going in here. So this robot will achieve almost every interactive task that humans can perform.

This is his promise. Uh, perform in daily life and such as navigating the cluttered environments and the other stuff.

But later you are reading the same magazine again and you are saying that okay.

Of course, Professor James Roberts is failed to do any kind of test that any four years or four years old children can do.

So now, based on this question, I am saying that what kind of heuristics or principles validated by James Pillar?

Come on. Yes. Okay, Joe Seligman.

Okay. What does this. Okay.

Cool. That is a great explanation.

Anyone who wants. No.

Forms follow function. Okay. He's creating a humanoid robot for its arms like an octopus.

So basically, he's also violating this, uh, stuff too. Yep.

Interaction. Expand function. It created one interaction, but it didn't, uh, scale up to the others.

Like, what is the function that is creating? Is, uh, all to stop listening?

Yeah. Uh, employing the robot for daily life activities.

But he fails to deliver a single one.

So it's also somehow. Uh. Yeah.

Couldn't, uh, deliver this one? Couldn't to deliver this one.

And they don't miss Matterport again. It's in the. Or humanoids with octopus stuff, so he almost folded all of them.

Okay. So in the exam, you cannot say that.

He just voided this one and without an explanation. So some of the questions will be you have to answer correctly, validate principle and explain it.

Why if you do one of them then you will not get it.

Okay. So that's why. For you to.

It is better to understand at this one example from each risk heuristic,

both in the robot and the computer case, and try to elaborate it and the experiment.

Here. Uh. The violated the principle.

Is the overpromise and under deliver. But we will accept that for the other principles that you mentioned.

Okay with the condition that you have to explain it. Why? Okay.

So. How is it? This question.

It is easy. Because, uh, hearts.

It's too long. Okay.

I think it's actually okay. In one minute. You can, uh, as with, uh, read and answer this question I had a question for.

And again, we said that the design principles are, uh, slowly, slowly entering to the, uh, domain.

But it's not as measured as in the, uh, human computer interaction.

And, uh, you will not be responsible for this kind of a pattern, so you don't need to read it.

But, uh, just be aware that, uh.

All different types of different resources has different type of settings for it, but the one that you will be responsible is just this four of.

And, uh, uh, don't forget this one also.

Okay. For for loss function. And this one is overlapping with the font for this function and the remaining three.

Okay. Again.

The. The field is quite, quite low, quite low.

And then still we need to accumulate a lot of resources and lot of, uh, uh, output from the different types of, uh, uh, background.

And we need to once we set up the series six, very well, then we can apply it to our, uh, products.

Then we can verify that our product is, uh, satisfies this condition, and it will be marketed.

Okay. In the interface domain, we already have.

Like we have the normal heuristics. We have an least negative six.

And if you verify that you are doing this one then you will satisfy the usability criteria.

But in the HRA we still don't have this one. So that will be good.

For instance, at teases, uh, for you. Or good, uh, internship project.

Okay. And then another, uh. Thinks that we should consider its uncanny valley.

Probably. You already heard this one. Okay.

It's a term in, uh, in Japanese, actually. They don't have an equivalent, uh, translation in, uh, in English.

It's called uncanny, but it is. You can, uh, translate as in strangeness or familiarity.

It is interesting stuff actually. Like when you have a.

This, uh, in this kind of a curve.

For the industrial robot. You don't have to read too much, okay?

And it is not irritating you. But for the if the familiarity of the robot to increase the form of the robot becomes more humanoid for you,

then you will be more familiar with okay, it will not sound too strange for you.

But once. That's, uh. Uh, that's, uh, familiarity or the type of robot is change back here.

What do you have? This is the author of a, uh.

It's a famous I find out of. I forget his name. 1 or 2 rats.

Uh. Glad?

No. Okay. I forget his name. Maybe we send a off to, uh, that's Tim Salter.

It's a shame that I forget, uh, Arthur, but once you see it in here.

Yeah, it's a humanoid form. Your family will not be disturbed.

But once you see the its chest is opening and some mechanic like a terminator, then you are dropping your familiarity in here to it.

Okay. And that will be extended to do prosthetic hands and the other kind of artefacts in here.

And since it is hard to explain, are hard to understand. Actually, you will not be responsible in the exam.

But just be aware that this kind of uncanny valley exists and the people are researching it.

And that's why, for instance, coming up with the principles for the HRA, it's very hard for them.

And in the digital products. Cool.

Now we are moving to the type of interaction. We are saying that, okay, we introduced the let's say, you know, the human part of it.

We know that now, Robert. Part of it. Now the interactive part has to be important.

And we are, uh, group, uh, grouping or interaction with the robots in three different domains.

One is the special like an you should have some distance with robot and each distance really played some,

some uh uh, it will be meaningful in some cities. For instance, for the medical robot, it can be as close as possible to you.

Yeah. For the coaching robot. Like this drawing here can be a bit further away from me.

And for the other kind of robots, like in here, that walk around the human populated environments, that they have to keep their distance.

And it is important and it will be an exam question for you. Okay.

And now can you tell me? Other than this three.

Do we have? Other different types of interaction with our robots.

Yeah, I can interact with, especially verbally and non-verbal away.

What other ways that we can interact with drones? Come on.

But let's say the robots are not in the real life.

And they are. They exist in their virtual reality. And you are feeling good about the glass and the interacting with robot.

Will this be a different type of interaction? Yes.

No. Maybe. Okay.

Just think about it, okay? Maybe you will come up with a different type of interaction.

But in the exam you will be responsible on the industry.

And this is the last year we invite one, uh, a very creative, very talented students from uh, University Wisconsin in uh, from.

Yes. And may she introduce her?

Super interesting, uh, work, actually, to the, uh, to our student.

Unfortunately, this year I am very, very late, and I couldn't arrange a, uh, guest speaker.

But the next semester, we will do, uh, one of them at this.

One of them here. Everybody watched some cartoons and animals.

Yeah. Like in the inspiration of this work is whether you are interested in the anime characters or the cartoon characters.

Especially in Japan, there are. Creating any type of queues for us to understand.

Okay. Like if you are solving a problem or if you are angry to, uh, other people in the environment, you are releasing some, I don't know, hits.

Okay. Or if you are running super fast, you are seeing some, uh, cloudy stuff or the windy stuff are going right in there.

And she said that, okay, if it exists in the cartoon world, why not in the, uh, robotics world?

Okay. They designed the one backpack for the robot.

And while you are interacting with this robot. Okay, she gave some type of the, uh, some type of the, uh, choose.

Back here. It's smoke. Okay, maybe smoke means that from what is super tired or angry to you.

Okay. And here is some, uh. Uh, I don't know.

Some, uh. Bubbles. Maybe it shows that a robot is super happy.

And here is, uh, some liquid. I don't know what's the function of it.

But you are seeing that here like an. We are not limited by the interaction that we have with the humans.

We can be as creative as possible. And here is the very, very interesting work in the HR domain.

If I am not wrong. Uh, she got the best paper over, uh, with this paper.

No, not with the speaker, with the other robot that she has. And her robot is this one.

Please go and check it. This crowd.

Okay. Roads. Um, yeah.

Like she's creating a lot. Ouch.

Was that stroke? Yeah. Like a robot so that it can change its shape based on the interaction that to the extent.

Expand. Twist. You can say that these are all, uh, nonverbal interaction of the robot that you can interpret in that phone.

So it's very good. Yeah. Yeah. This paper is got the best paper a lot of times.

And she just follow her name. And you will find a lot of, uh, interesting stuff from her research.

And she is an very good example, uh, of the person that can combine the different, uh, uh,

different, uh, array of robotics and the design and the create and this kind of nice products.

For the special interaction. This is a or experiment in a balloon and you see.

We are putting the robot in a specific place that does not bother the, uh, participants and does, uh, does, uh, obey the social norms?

So we cannot put, uh, this robot as close as possible to do this.

Uh, uh, participant in here. So we need to follow some, uh, some ideas.

And you don't need to create your own, uh, rules for it.

And we already have some, uh, uh, stuff from the literature, and it's called canons Face in Space.

Like one position is the. If there is an.

Student and teacher interaction between the robot and human.

You can put in the face to face or you can put in this kind of stuff.

Why? Because imagine there is a student in here and I am solving a problem for her,

and she is paying attention, and I am paying the same attention engagement. So it can be opposite of me or next to me.

So for this one you can choose either this one.

Okay. This. This, uh, the information in a or this one.

See? Okay. So it means that the distance or special interaction requires some social.

Aspect plus the test aspect. Is it great for you?

Okay. Okay. And it can be, uh, you know, multiple robots with multiple humans and some others can override.

But you will find a variation of this can Camden surface formation.

Or you can also create one of like, you cannot do this if you are working with, uh, drones, for instance you.

And a verbal interaction is important because this is a one weight that we are using for uh, disseminating,

disseminating or uh, knowledge and the interaction, uh, uh, information for the uh, for the our partner.

And it is good because we can understand each other.

If you know the same language and the same vocabulary and the same context, that we can create and share reality.

Which means that if I am talking right to design and you are understanding what I mean and asking a question or expanding my arguments.

So we have a shared reality between the two of us.

But in the robotics it's a bit hard. Why? Because robots are not aware that the context.

And it is very hard to achieve this verbal interaction, with the exception of the power of Allah.

Now, now we can expand the verbal interaction as much as possible.

Okay. And here is the default to. Default to verbal plus non-verbal interaction of the verb robot.

You know, I think. Excited work.

Can you see a can do an answer? Some actions and the play.

The number will behave. And another type of interaction.

We said this, uh, non-verbal one. And, uh, it is it is quite important actually.

Like on. You can display a number of behaviour with a lot of stuff here, back and forth, gazing back,

paying attention to the different stuff for the pointing and for the a lot of even for a particular

thing like putting a some of us they achieve a high grade or so and some stuff that they should not do.

So everything in here has some meaning and it has some social component on it.

And again with the dextrous dexterity that we have or human has have.

This robot doesn't have. Okay. Like here you will see.

Peppa. Robot is five fingers, but it cannot point.

Because it has only one, uh, actuated. If you close this one and it will automatically close the.

So it cannot, for instance, do the. Uh, let's see.

I do this kind of stuff. The market is. You know.

This. So again.

It is super hard to achieve and, uh. Or. Persistent person.

Which is to of course, actually he is working in this domain.

And he did a very nice example actually. Next time I can bring it.

Under. One question. Through our interaction, which is important for my.

Number one or my verbal output. In general, let's say you are going to barista and barista is showing some stuff or talking with which one is.

No. Or we can say that, okay, the number one is universally much more important than ever.

Look, listen, this is more important than this.

Yeah, yeah. In the same domain, let's say. Let's say I'm teaching in here.

And which one is important for you? My. Number one.

Yes. That's that's what the. That's the context and the. It is hard to actually come up with a, um.

Uh, universal answer for it. Like here. Yeah.

So this question has. Have any of you been approached by the US for a tour?

No. Did you get it?

Okay, let's get back to that. Uh, they can send information to them.

Let's see. Uh, CIA. Okay. FBI. You are installing a new MacBook, and you are using one app and one of sensitive information to, uh, to.

Okay. Okay. And now is the question is. Do.

So this is clearly in the most Western societies as quickly as you.

But verbally, let's say, you know, let's use this.

And here we are seeing that the dominant interaction and the most informative one is the number two.

And try it actually. And people will get uh will be confused.

A lot like him. And imagine that you are the robot and they are on the robot, and it will be much more harder, actually.

Okay, cool. Ouch.

Watch this. Okay. And here's the, uh, not super to one of the robots that developed by Disney Research into this being what, uh, gives a.

Uh, this uh, uh, introduction. And you will see for a realistic example.

Every time. Kenny, you are seeing that uniform. It's very hard to achieve.

Moving their head in one direction and in other direction.

That's what we have for robots. Okay.

And that is the one of the important things actually for us here, especially if you are, uh, interacting with some uh,

uh, students while solving for us from the, uh, the, uh, question, especially if you are a 1 to 1 done.

You can create a joint attention.

Joint attention means that the two parties are focusing on the same topic, object or whatever exist in the environment.

Imagine that you are asking the question. Welcome to here and I am paying attention to here.

Of course you will say that. Okay. This, uh.

Teacher is not taking me seriously, so we don't have any intention.

And again to engagement. Importance. This is one of the. Most dominant, uh, nonverbal way to display that.

I'm interested in what you are doing. Imagine that you are going to a movie.

Instead of watching the movie. You are interacting with other people. So.

And the. Yeah. The signals of the, uh, everything sort of stuff is obvious.

And we don't need to. Just a one body part of 2 or 2 interacted for him on the, uh, gestures that we display by the face.

It's a much more important, somehow more important. But in reality, a robot can do a lot of stuff.

Like here. You see, this is me. More younger and.

Uh, in a second. And I am fleeing. Am I one of my gestures like a posing.

And here is this. The robot is called affective. A factory is a robot that it can display in a hyper realistic way for the human gestures.

Like, uh, this one, uh, the surface.

And the. You also can do the similar, uh, sort of, uh, can do, uh, non-verbal communication with your, um, other, uh, limbs, basically.

Okay. Even some somehow, uh, your, um, your foot when you are dancing, for instance.

And it is. It is, uh, very hard to actually do for the robots if the robots are hardcode hardcoded.

For the some moment, it is easy to do it. Uh, remember the Wizard of Oz implementation?

But doing this one autonomously is very, very hard. And, uh, what else for?

This robot is a factor, and I need to. I mean I want to show some example okay.

This is a subassembly using this robot for a robot okay.

Okay. There is a one sensor next to the robot and we are hammering that sensor.

A robot is changing its face. Or you can put the robot in here.

It can change its face. So basically, we are interacting.

Uh. We are making robot more effective efforts.

In your application. Another one is the service robotics.

And this one is, uh. We are. Applying the robots.

If the task is super dirty, like a cleaning the house, or the super repetitive for us, or the dungeons for us.

And one of the most successful robotic application of his, of course, is the Roomba.

And, uh, this, uh, is, I guess, for the cannot, uh, achieve the same thing as the plant.

If you change the plant, uh, if you've a tramp type or the, uh, make this one a bit higher or lower, it will fail.

But no matter what, uh, or the furniture or layout of your, uh, room, uh, Roomba cannot achieve it.

So that's why we can call. Roomba is one of the successful example for that, uh, service robots.

And we can expand this episode of application in super, super different domain.

Like, I'm sure regarding, uh, robots, one of the earliest, uh, earlier example of the, the, uh, earlier example of the, uh, service over some.

Uh, some, uh, robots for, uh, elderly care in the shopping mall.

And the receptionist. The robots. There are also robots for the entertainment.

Okay, like in the museum, you will find this T-Rex and it will roar you or it will change its head if you are approaching it,

or if they see you or they randomly generate some movement. Now for the health care.

That is another good domain like and you can.

Yeah, for this article in the, uh, in the department that she is using, uh,

some robots to teach autistic children or the intellectually disabled children to recognise emotion and display the emotion.

And oftentimes this kind of robots are cute and the super small.

Why? Because the domain is the children. And you can use this kind of the service robots for the health care and the therapy session.

And there are a lot of different applications.

And. Ranging from the self-driving robots to the health care to the, uh, robot companions.

But still, we don't have any success stories. You see, in case of now, we are still operating that robot.

They are not autonomous. In case of this one, I guess this this one I mentioned previously.

It is created by the one of the famous, uh, human robot interaction researcher from MIT.

She had a lot of, uh, access to the best people in the world as a researcher and a nice,

uh, and, uh, nice, uh, company to receive the investment, but still.

Nobody knows. Among you, I hope. I assume.

Oh. What's the. And the I said before, but I forget.

But this time I will do it. I will share, uh, one presentation with you about why this kind of robots are failing in the market.

Okay. Yep. And of course, some ethical problems for the exercise also exist.

So we cannot create 1 or 1 product that can solve a problem without generating another problem for us.

And one problem is addiction. Imagine that you are creating an supercute robot companion and your child is addicted to interaction with that robot.

That would be one problem. And another problem is you buy those expensive robots.

Lets say no ten of them, but you understand that they cannot perform anything other than the third operation,

and you can lose the interest of using this robot.

Then it will be just another threshold for you and the.

Uh, recycling. The robotics part is super, super expensive and, uh, super, super hard actually, to achieve.

Okay interfaces, you will not be responsible. But, uh, you can see that.

Okay, we have some interfaces for the robots. And still it is in this early period.

Uh, there is no commercially available robot interfaces for us.

So that can be an opportunity for you to create it. And a convention.

Uh, one, uh, confession. Okay. So these are the most expensive robots that you can buy and work with, but still,

we have a super, super ugly interfaces that are not, uh, that are not useful.

Actually, uh, for us to, uh, to work, uh, uh, to work with them.

Why? Because these interfaces are generated by one user and he generates or the built by.

Himself for performing at one function, and if you inherit it, it is inherit this.

Interface. Then you cannot use it as product as a history.

So that's why we need a lot of, uh, designer social interaction designers, such as in that domain.

And we are getting a little bit better than previous stuff.

So we finish our lecture today. I know it was a bit fast, but.

If you just take the content that you deliver and the video, well, it will be for your exam.

And if you have a question, uh, this, uh, attached to this week's, uh, practical session and you will do free style,

uh, design stuff for your assignments, and we will we will be there to help you.

And. And evens.

We will go to overtime for you. Okay. Okay.

You can take look at. This.

So when I mentioned the interactions.

