[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Okay, let's start for today's lecture. And the.

You already know, your grace about the second assignment.

Okay, so today is the submission for the third assignment.

Everybody is ready to submit or you need some time.

So we negotiated extension. No need to, because it is quite simple, actually.

And this, uh, sounds. All right.

And unfortunately, we couldn't meet in person last week and we did a video lecture.

So do you have any question about the intelligent user interfaces? No.

Yes. Okay. So if you have a question for this session, especially for the intelligent user interfaces, please send me, not send me.

Send the message to the canvas and we will decide how to oh, I don't know.

Reorganise. Uh, one session for this, uh, topic to. Okay, now we are slowly approaching, uh.

Uh, and also Mr. I guess we only have, uh, three remaining, uh, lectures.

So. I hope everything is going well with the assignments and other stuff, but, uh, from this, uh, topic, uh, and the following the weeks,

it will be a bit more engaging, I will say, because we already finished the UCD cycle and you are already applying the UCD circle for your projects.

So here just we will, uh, give some information that will be useful for the how to, let's say, fill the blanks for your project.

Okay. Based on the curriculum that we are showing in the CSI, uh, uh, CSI, uh, department.

Okay. We did a lot of stuff, uh, since, uh, three weeks.

You already, uh. Get the grades for the first and the second submission.

And the second submission is quite, uh. Second assignment is quite.

Actually, uh, I will say the hardest one. So if you have some graded mismatching, that's okay.

And if you have a question related to your grades, you can, uh, attend the practice session.

Then we can go in details. And the alternative is you can request reassessment of your, uh, your grade.

Okay. But this time, you should be a bit careful and aware that.

After the, uh, reassessment, we will go in detail and re-assess that all comment that we give to you.

Maybe we will also add additional comments. Or maybe we realise that, okay, this comment is not, uh, fair for this project.

So based on the reassessment, you may be done or upgraded.

Okay. So just be aware that if you want to reassessment contact with your all group members,

maybe some group members will say that okay, I am happy with my grade and I don't want to reassessment.

But for the other group members.

If you need to agree with all group members because at times you will get the single great and that will be great of your whole group.

Okay. Yeah. And today we will introduce the cognition part of the HCI.

And it will be a bit interesting. And you will find a lot of actually principles to adopt for your project.

Of course, you are not responsible to, uh, adopt everything that we mentioned here,

but later you will show a few of them in your presentation and it will give you a nice vocabulary,

actually, to make an, uh, uh, justification about your design decision, uh, for your project.

And here is the one interesting link, uh, from Reddit. Oh.

From Reddit. It's called a bad UI battles. There are some challenges like, uh, like who will create the worst pass for the, uh, interface.

And, uh, if you have a time and if you are in bad mood, okay, after one exam, just go there and you will see,

okay, people are super creative and you will definitely find, uh, super funny submissions.

You can also submit your own, uh, stuff, but I will not suggest that because Reddit is an wild, wild west.

Okay, so people are super, super, um, polite.

So be careful and you need some thickness in your skin if you are ready to submit to, uh, Reddit.

Okay. Last comment about the, uh, trivial stuff and the admin admin stuff.

In the next this week, we will, uh, do personal development for your, uh, group project.

So basically in the practice session, you will come and you will show us.

Your, uh, your, uh, your user, uh, study your interview results or your, uh, survey results.

Then based on these results, we will slowly, slowly construct your persona.

We will be there and we will, uh, reply your questions and we will try to help you.

For the personal part. Okay.

And today is the one submission you're looking for.

Stuff. If you want me, I can postpone the submission to Friday.

Do you want or not? Yes. Except.

Yes, but it is not the full great stuff.

And you already learned and we already show in the, uh, figma.

Okay, how to use the template and feel the personal stuff. No, it's not this.

We said the persona. Persona is just a single task in there.

But somebody will come and maybe they will show their, um, low fidelity prototype or high fidelity prototype.

Okay, so it's not just then we are saying that this topic is the for practice session, and we will focus for two hours for the topic.

That will not happen. Okay. So for the. Okay.

During the break, I will extend the, uh, submission. But you need to confirm that.

Okay? Everything is okay. Because I only see one group is already summit.

Submit, uh, assignment three. So anyone in the group?

Number three. No. Okay, then.

I will send an email about such. Okay.

Now we are, uh. Okay first.

Do you have any questions? To. No. We. Made an, uh, quite long intro.

No. Perfect. Done. Let's go with today's, uh, first topic.

Okay. We will give a lot of information related to cognition and how you apply these principles for your project.

But first we need to explain and define it.

And in the literature definition of cognition is a lot like if you say you want cognitive scientists, what is the cognition?

They will come up with their own definition and they may not match with the one that you expect or the one that exists in the textbook.

But for this course we will explain cognition as a mental action or process of acquiring the knowledge.

Uh, through. Understanding through thought and senses.

Okay. But this is for the high definition. And we also have won the definition from the robotics.

I guess we already mentioned during the lecture in I to.

And in that we defined that cognitive system or cognition is a system or the process of the systems that enables the entity that can be human.

This can be a robot. Uh, autonomously achieve okay regularity or increase the regularity in the environment.

So we define we accept this definition. Which is a cognitive system, is an autonomous anti entropy engine, which is quite, uh, easy.

But here we can be a bit hand-wavy. Okay, because here we will not play with the numbers.

But once we enter the robotic domain, everything will be number okay.

And in this lecture we will give some pointers also. If you want to work in the, uh, cognitive robotics or the other, uh,

cognition related robotic, uh, uh, studies, but, uh, it will not be super emphasised.

Intersection. And the other day we are, uh, dividing, uh, cognition into a mode.

Okay. And the one is the experiential.

Another one. Is that effective? So that will be in the exam.

And in the exam, some of the students will make a mistake. The first mistake will be.

Writing, not experiential writing. Experimental.

Okay. And they are not the same. Do not make this mistake.

Okay. For affective cognition. There writing some students writing reflexive.

Okay. And they are completely. Completely independent, uh, concepts.

Okay. So just learn the what is cognition and what is the mode or type of cognition and the, uh features.

First one is experiential, you mean? It means that you need to, uh, learn with the experience, okay?

Or you need to act. You need to have an experience. Engage. And not that this experience also exists in our, uh, definition.

And usually it is effortless. Okay, like, imagine that you are, uh, learning.

Uh, learning the riding a car that's not driving a car initially.

Yes. Yeah. You have to pay attention. A lot of stuff. And you have to make a one lap for your level, for your gas pedal and for the wheel.

But after a few weeks, it will be automatic for you. Here we are saying that this is an experiential example for experiential cognition.

Reflecting. One is you are reflecting, okay, like I'm making some plans basically.

Like you need to work for your autonomous systems, uh, exam next semester.

And what you need. You need to first learn that. Okay. What is autonomous systems?

What is the syllabus? And, uh, uh, what are the definitions and what are the concepts that we learned in the practice sessions.

So it requires a lot of effort for you okay. And here this kind of cognition or learning or thinking is belong to reflective one okay.

So if you are doing something super deliberative like the planning, then you can say that this is reflective one.

But if you are learning by accident, for instance, or if you are learning without planning too much in detail, then it can be experiential.

So is it okay? You understand? Perfect. I guess you already know this kind of concepts, but it's better to learn it here.

So. Yeah, these are the examples. Like swimming for instance.

If you are swimming, you just need to do some gestures, some movements.

You are not saying that it has to be one either. Sorry, 360 degree.

And with this force and with this temperature of the water, we are not interested in that.

Okay. If I randomly put you. Uh, put you in the full.

Probably you will figure out by yourself. Okay, how to how to, uh, how to swim.

But unlike the exponential one, reflective one requires a bit planning, a bit thinking, and you need to show mental and sometimes physical effort.

It's. And this is the one book. Who, uh, who among you read this book?

You. Perfect. Perfect. It's a super interesting book I read during my PhD, but after the.

Reading. It's the only thing that I remember. Is this too?

Okay. We have a two system or two thinking. System one.

System two. One. System one. And they are almost corresponding the experiential and reflective cognition.

Engage. Okay. And the Carnarvon.

Actually, he received, uh, Nobel Prize.

I'm not sure. Maybe. Yeah, yeah, he received a Nobel Prize.

But in economics. Yeah. Not in the. In the in the study that he already did.

Oh, it's already in here. Yeah, I guess he's not only.

Oh. Writer of this book. What?

He's not on the author of this book. Uh. Uh, there is a co-author also.

And he passed away, I guess, two years ago. But he did with assisted suicide actually like him.

So. Some trivia about the carnival.

Again, some people are using different type of, uh, keywords to mentioning the same thing,

but in here we will mostly use the cognition rather than thinking.

Okay. We explain a lot. What is the cognition and what are the types of it.

And now we have n elements or lists of the components of a cognition.

And these are the incomplete lists. Okay. You can, uh, add memory in here.

Usually we are giving the sensory memories short term memory and long term memory.

But in the literature there exist other types of memories, like a prospective memory, the memory in the future.

And now a question for you. You know, who is this guy?

And this guy is, uh, playing a. Human computer interaction, the game developed by his students.

Now, what kind of elements that this guy.

Is, uh, employing while playing this game. That might be a good example actually in the exam question.

Assume that he is fully functioning like in Mr. Okay, so am I.

Sorry. Am I employing the my attention system to here?

Yeah, but oftentimes it is vision based attention.

You like my Minecraft character? I am not playing the game while looking for my friend for a long time.

Okay, so it means that, uh, potential, uh, paying attention only in this, uh, uh, screen.

Perception. Yes. Why? Because I am, uh, seeing the game.

And the maybe game is generating some audio, and I am perceiving the.

And now question. Maybe that will be a coffee question for you.

What is the difference between? Sensing or sensory information and perception.

Cool. I can put here also the distancing and heating.

Yes. It's just one of your, uh.

Uh. Uh, but, uh, perception is that your brain actually.

Uh. Uh, you actually, uh, like, uh, if your body does not receive the signal, but it also.

Okay. You can be more clear. I know you are in the good part.

Because for some reason you said that the processing by the brain or the by the human, the sensory sensory inputs also processed by stuff.

So what's the difference between the. It's just a one keyboard.

If not, I will accept your definition. Okay, so who wants to help me think about as a robot?

You are a robot, and you have a camera, and you have an, uh, microphone, or you have the laser data for the distance.

These are all of them are the sensory input. So how my robot should be named is a perceptual agent or perceptual processing agent.

So what's the difference between the sensory input or reading and the perception?

Come on. Okay.

The perception is that you combine, uh, those senses.

Perfection, perfection and the Korean picture.

Combining sensory information and. Okay.

In what way? And. Okay, so you are correct and you will get the coffee.

But we need to expand it. We already know what sensor is like.

Let's say it's a camera. But to say that the sensor information reached a perceptual level.

That information has to be meaningful. Okay.

So you are combining all the sensory information that you have and generating one information that is meaningful for your task.

Like in here. Now I'm receiving a lot of sensory data from the environment, from the screen and from the, uh, lip washing in here.

These are all sensory data. But I understand that, okay, this character, that I am controlling it.

Okay moves from that parts to the different parts.

That becomes a meaningful data for me and that becomes the perceptual part of the game for us.

Okay. So that's what is information. Perception is the meaningful information for your agent okay.

Just be remember. And what does I am a.

Including in here. Memory. Certainly I need to understand that where I am or where is my learning?

Am I learning anything? Maybe I am learning the how to use the leap motion.

Reading, speaking, listening, maybe speaking or not there or listening in here.

Problem solving? Definitely. Okay. So that's why, for instance, we are, uh.

Who's. If it's something you're.

Okay. Let's say, uh, my, uh.

Problem is to reach from one point to another in the map.

Okay. But in reality.

There is no single path to achieve you. So the learning, the witchcraft is reaching.

That is my learning path. And to reach from one place to another is the problem solver.

Okay, so they are somewhat overlapping, but in reality they are different.

Okay. Coco. Okay, so imagine that this guy.

As a perfectly functioning the, uh, cognitive, uh, system.

And the all elements are already. And.

But something happened and he loses one of what will happen.

Let's say I lost my. Uh.

My memory. What will happen to this guy?

Can he come from? In this case, yes, in the Minecraft case.

Can I just so because I don't know where I am and I don't have anybody from the back.

I will just remember my, uh, goal, but I will not achieve anything.

So it means that. All of them are critical, but some of them are more critical than others.

Okay. For instance, for perception. And if you are visually disabled, okay.

And brain is plastic, then the vision parts can be replaced with the other sensory systems.

You can still function. But imagine that you have a difficulty in learning.

Still can function for your life, but you may not achieve the same.

Level or the same developmental trajectory when you have the learning system.

So all of them are important. Especially you will see this kind of stuff from, uh.

Uh, from the, uh, children. Okay. If you have a cousin or the younger, uh, younger brother or sister.

Okay. And these are the hand-wavy explanation of the cognition in the general sense.

But we are an HCI researcher and we have to understand cognition within the HCI applications.

And we see that in here all of the elements are employed for solving the task.

Okay. So it means that if you want to create a similar systems then you have to be.

Comfortable enough to understand the elements of cognition.

And, uh, we also need to understand the limitations. Okay.

Here, for instance, for the memory, we know that for the short term memory, we cannot.

At most, uh, hold only seven items.

Okay. To achieve, uh. Or task. But in here, if you are giving me 8 or 800 items to accomplish my task, of course I will fail.

Okay, so it means that in this case, the HCI researchers didn't they didn't do his or her job.

Well. And, uh, he failed me with this design.

Okay. And of course we also need to understand that okay, we have a user base.

And what kind of the assumption that we are making for user base. Maybe some of them have a.

Problem with learning.

Some of them have a problem with the memories, and as an HCI developer or the designer or goal is to help them and what else we can do.

It is better to learn actually for them and especially a new paper.

So people are publishing new papers in the same domain and they will guide us for making some design decisions.

Maybe they will offer a one technique for us. Then, uh, we will help our, uh, users a short term memory.

Then with the short term memory, we can increase the user base in this gaming or in different games by 10% or 20% or 1% even.

Okay. So it is quite related to our topic.

So it. Now it's the attention. Here the attention is.

We will define that okay. Selectively focusing specific aspect of the environment okay.

And here this is I guess from you talk. And all of the, let's say, uh, audience.

Or following something. Except this guy. You know this movie.

Yes. Okay. Uh, estimates or the.

Guess what they are doing in here? What they are watching. That's very okay.

And one guy in here is specifically focusing or paying attention to the tennis player, and the rest is following the ball.

Okay. It's quite interesting actually. And here the importance is subjective.

Maybe this is a detective and he wants to watch the player.

Or maybe it is. The tennis player is, uh, his favourite, uh, player.

That's why he's paying attention to him or her.

And it depends, uh, for the application that we are generating.

So we have some. Uh, we have some tools, actually, to guide our users.

And the most recent tool that we introduced you is.

For the interface. How can you guide the user?

Uh. Attention. Oh, let's go here again.

Uh, Google. Okay.

So our attention is not here or here or whatever the part is in here, we directly pay attention to here.

Okay? It's a call to action for us. And how they use a Google developer or the designer to achieve this one.

By using appropriate design elements.

Okay. Remember from, uh. Uh, two weeks ago that we introduced the, uh, uh, visual elements of the design.

Uh, we said that it is hard to master, and this is the reason, actually.

Okay, so you need to understand somehow a bit cognitive, cognitive part of the design to be master of the visual elements.

And here is the heatmap. Heat of methods.

Okay. To extract information from the user's.

Which part? For them is much more informative than the rest.

Okay, so here you will see the. But just by intuition.

Yeah. Like, uh, that part is the much more.

Attentively under this part. Okay. This part. So it means that as a user.

So as a designer. If you create this one.

Just use some visual elements that make much more salient than that part of the page, for instance.

Okay. What the is this designers doing?

Let's do the same thing, George Brett. I don't know if it exists, but listen.

Which. But yeah, it's baseball.

Okay. And of course, Google to change the interface.

But, uh, we can see from.

From this study to here. A lot of things are changing, but the main things are, uh, the same.

Yeah. Like, what is the first thing that I'm seeing in here is this one the title?

Uh, last, uh, the second one is the picture.

And the third. Some links and other stuff. So it means that all of the design elements and the designer is achieving a good.

Good. Designed to guide my. To guide my, uh, uh, to, uh, to, uh, guide my attention and give.

And of course, this kind of, uh, studies are super, uh, valuable for us because we don't have money.

Uh, I, I struggled with that. Because we don't have the money to for your projects.

Okay. To conduct the same thing in here based on your, uh, user base, but we still can understand some of the important parts,

like if you can control your visual design elements very well and understand very well, it means that you can guide your users.

Attention very well and that will be valuable for your product later.

And that's why cognition is an important part for the design.

And it is better to always pay attention. Some data driven.

Uh, studies to understand that, okay, how they're achieving especially this, uh,

uh, this, uh, the, uh, visual design elements to guide, uh, the user's attention.

Okay. Again. That was our motto.

It is very, very hard to be master of the visual design.

Although the list is not infinite, if you know, let's say all of them in here, it will be quite okay for your projects.

But still, if you bring five people together and ask them to design the same interfaces,

believe it or not, five of them will come up with a different. Uh, different.

Uh uh uh uh, different design. I'm seeing that for from your, uh, submissions, actually, in one submission.

It is. I don't know if it's an aerial 15.

Another submission is nine times in a month's time. In the last submission, the.

The figure is quite big. Another submission. It will be quite long, so it means that it is very, very hard to become a master and given unified.

Preferred way for your design. Okay, now everybody knows this one.

Should I showed? You know, all of them.

No you don't. Okay, let's just watch it. The monkey.

Business illusion. Count how many times the players are wearing white.

Pass the ball. In.

Whoever laughs. And they. They all know. The correct answer is 16 passes and you know the rest of the video or just this part.

Okay, let's watch it again. Why did you spot the gorilla?

Yes we did. For people who had a couch.

Okay. The monkey.

Okay, you already know this one. Okay. Now. For the attention to grow the user attention.

You mentioned that you are in, uh.

Uh, designing the interface of the booking.com or any hotel or reservation website, and you are giving this list to your user.

And you are asking that, okay, give me the price of double rooms and it will be a task of at least 2 or 3 people.

Okay, to, uh, to extract information from here and to compare that, okay.

Which price is higher than the others or the which one is, uh, cheaper, but in a specific, uh, specific location.

So instead of doing this one. Now everybody say that.

Okay, everybody, uh, is okay with this design.

Why? Because it is easy to find. Yep.

So just a double. Uh, room.

Okay, this is double, and I find double in here.

Which one is the cheap? The cheapest one is this one and this one.

And among these two, I can check the days in order.

Howard Johnson. Whatever. So it may start with a few shots that I can find my latest information.

And that is the power of the visual design that guides your attention.

Okay. And believe it or not, it is very hard to achieve it.

I am reading some PhD thesis. Some must regret this.

It's just an soup soup of the numbers and soup of the titles and supporting stuff.

And it is very, very. Was demotivating to read the rest of the information that you have.

But if they provide the information, like in this format, that I can easily find it.

It will be much more beneficial for me, because I will not spend too much time to retrieve the necessary information for myself or for the thesis.

So. Please be aware that are learning.

Uh, only the visual design elements is not enough. Practice a lot.

Okay. And, uh, if you design something, uh, sent to the canvas and we will try to, uh, criticise it,

we never achieve this kind of product, actually, uh, productive way to interact with the class.

But if you have a sample, uh, new website design, new application design or new report design,

just send me the link and I will share with the canvas and we will, uh, criticise your, uh, approach.

Okay. Now in here. Did you see something?

Uh. Of. No.

You look at the same thing with the previous one. No.

Something of something related to the course. In here in the slide.

If you discover I will give. I will give, uh.

Okay, I forgot to bring this time, but next time I will bring this like link.

Council. One of. I will bring a black pencil purse.

No, not Doctor Martin. Maybe Martin Luther.

Yeah, I will bring this one. To give you.

Okay. And this is very famous, uh, designers, uh, an animator, uh, a pencil, and one of these Disney anime animators.

The famous one is buried with this paper and this pencils.

In his, uh, finger debris. It is a heavy pencil.

Now you can earn one of the knots. 12. If you tell me some connection with the.

With this slide and this one that we introduced before. Maybe.

Maybe before. Yeah, I don't.

Okay. And I don't mean that I'm in perception of nothing. Come on.

Let me measure your attention. Okay.

Can you try? Please try and find it.

A something like an it doesn't need to be informative or stuff.

Just three. One question okay, did you see the.

This video is a monkey business illusion.

Okay. Or gorilla? And in here is attention.

Okay. Represented by the gorilla. Which means that it is completely unrelated to you looking.

And the memory. Yet the memory cards. We know that learning is the books.

This reading is the book again. But here attention is represented by the gorilla, which refers to monkey business experiments.

So that was the thing that I. Uh, I was expecting.

But don't worry, I will bring them. Yeah. Bring the Blackwing in the next lecture and we will ask some questions too.

Cool. Now we are moving to perception. And we know that we already with some sensation like the, the basic one is the,

uh, simple five senses taste, vision, hearing, touching and the smelling.

These are extra receptive sensors. Okay. Which means that you are reading from the.

Information from the, uh, external environment. And we also have proprioceptive.

Have you heard this, uh, keyboard? Sure. Okay.

Can you give me an example with the exception? It's quite simple.

Okay. If you close your eyes, you can. Up here. And without getting any external information, you can localise your trance and you can club.

Or if you close your eyes and try to touch your nose, you can do it and you can do it through the proprioception.

Proprioceptive. Sounds engaged. Okay. So.

It may be a bit off for you to ask, but if you are doing, uh.

Uh, just sort out the experiments or the product or the project, then proprioceptive signals also will be important for you.

Okay. But here, most of the time we are only moving for the vision because we are interacting with the interface and we are using or touch,

uh, sand springs, maybe sometimes, uh, uh, audio, but not always.

But just be aware that proprioception is also exists and we will go in detail in a few slides.

And that is important for the robotics. And the next year we will see a lot of different, uh, uh, sensor types that you will use for your projects.

For the Arduino projects.

That can be a camera that can be in distance sensors, laser or the infrared, and that can be, uh, audio, uh, audio sensors like sonar.

Is that so nice? This is a sensor. What it used audio to, to measure the distance.

Just, uh, this is a brief, uh, brief, uh, let's say slide, uh, for the next semester.

Of course. You have a lot. And here is also the gist of the next semester too.

So basically next semester we will show this. Sensing, planning and acting cycle.

A lot you already see in the feedback lecture, but, uh,

you will understand that this is also part of robotics, especially sensing and perception part.

And, uh, let's make a one question.

Okay, this question is not related to HCI, but I want to see that whether you can, uh, brainstorm about this, uh, question.

Here. What we have, we're gonna be human. It's a German, uh, robot soccer team.

And now. You should tell me.

That's okay. How? This robot is representing the environment.

Means that how this robots can distinguish the background, this, uh, soccer field to this ball.

Or how it can differentiate its own, uh, team members.

Compared to the opponents. Or how this is much more interesting actually for me, how it can distinguish this frame.

It is their own time frame compared to the the one that exists in the, uh, other parts.

So can you tell me, especially the one that who are doing the computer vision, uh, project for this, uh, for this, uh, HCI, uh, course.

So tell me how it will represent, uh, environment to your robot. And assume that a robot equipped with the camera.

Let's say come round. Okay. And one with representation, let's say.

See that if I put the robot from here to. Here, here.

So here you can understand. Okay. This is the his own a team member.

He shouldn't score within this one. How it can achieve it.

Can we do supervised learning in here? Come on.

Yeah. This is, uh, this is a your, uh, let's say a Cristiano Ronaldo or Messi.

And you want to say to find the frame. I'll make a score for you.

How you can achieve it. Okay.

If you don't know, you don't know this. Fine. Next year he will. You will go.

We will go in unnecessary details about this stuff. 012.1.

Who's. Okay. What kind of foods can be?

What kind of thoughts come true. Uh, for example, if, uh, uh, if, uh, an object, uh, in.

Sensor area that do this action.

In that case, for example, yeah, we can go with the rule base.

But this is the super complex task for achieving narrow base stuff.

But that's not that you can do like an if you the. Uh, ball in, let's say three steps away, then approach it.

And if you are close to one step away, then kick it. You can do.

But it will work in a super restrictive domain, but not in here.

We'll get to the real world example of how your robot can understand where it is.

Okay. That's fine if you don't know. But the next semester we will go in detail and you will, uh.

You will somehow complain actually about it. What? The details will be like this and be prepared for the next semester.

So let's give him a break for 50 minutes. And in 45, please be here.

And if you have a question, read through the submission. Please come here after five minutes.

We can discuss. Silence.

Minutes. Just try to do this one.

Yeah. Okay, we can discuss about the design of the YouTube for the later.

So that's. Uh. Extension on this side.

So. Oh. Today.

Okay. Can. Can you check again and refresh it?

Yeah. I just did that line of a scientist.

Uh, and, uh, probably I did the second assignment of the sun.

This is the third one. Uh, the second assignment.

That was my bad. Sorry. Okay.

27 two. What? To.

31 year. 21 and 17 already passed.

You don't need to check the, uh, stuff. Okay.

Can you recheck again? Okay.

One of you can check Exadata. Okay.

Okay. For the here to.

Move. So we.

So. Okay. That's fine. Okay.

This is not okay. We'll check it later. Was it?

I accept this one. This one for 16 year.

So this one move. 69 will see.

60. Come on.

Okay. Let's start. But, uh, be aware that we will not ask this kind of questions in the exam.

So if you are not attending the.

If you are not attending the, uh, lecture, please watch the videos and you are not responsible for this kind of question.

Okay, we are still in the sensing part or the perception part. And we said that the most of the time that we will look for is the extra receptive.

Please learn how to spell it better okay. Because it's to say that the extra receptive it will be okay.

But the extra steps if something or the combination of proper receptive that the extra receptive it will not be accepted.

Okay. And we also have. And the third, the concept related to sensing.

And this one is much more for the internal state of your body actually.

Okay. Like when you are thirsty and you are drinking good, I don't know beer.

So that becomes your internal, uh, sensing.

But for your design, most of the time we will walk around in here unless you are doing the virtual reality application.

Okay. Any German speaking person in here?

No. No.

Okay. This word is, uh, called a gestalt, but something they call gestalt.

Whatever.

But I will just use them as a gestalt, as an important principle and the collection of the theory to make us understand how human perceptual system,

uh, system evaluate the surrounding and create the link between the what they are seeing it.

And the first one is this kind of stuff like, uh, we call this one the closure principle of closure.

But in reality, these are just an independent dos.

Yep. But our perception system does not see these are individually.

We are seeing in a single coherent way. And we are calling that this is a dog or Dalmatian a dog.

And later we will use, uh, this kind of, uh, actually, uh.

Love. It's called love. But do not resent the, uh, law of nature.

Okay. These are coming from the human perception system.

And the first one is the figure ground, which means that if you want to put a figure.

It has to be distinguishable from the background.

Okay. Like in here, this is in the vision religion. Yeah, it's a visual illusion for the Apple logo and the Steve Jobs.

But here what we are seeing that the background is the black and the construction contrast between the this,

uh, letter and the background is quite high.

It means that you can quite easily read it. And this is called figure ground.

Okay. And it doesn't need to be, um, that black, uh, uh, uniformly black background.

You can put this, um, on top of this, uh, Steve job.

Uh uh uh, face. Still, you can read it.

Okay. And that's why we called a figure ground.

And you will see in a lot of applications in the, uh, in the websites that are implementing this, uh, principle.

The. Third one is the sorry.

Second one is the similarity. If some objects are look like similar, it means that they are related.

Okay. Recall that from the, uh, an all times the, uh, the grid system of the grid system of the newspapers.

And we see that they are quite similar to each other. So the information given in there, they they share some characteristics.

Like here you will see one card. Again, it has on the photo.

It doesn't title, it has some, uh, numbers inside it.

So it means that the information exists in here are. Showing this similar content for us.

To, uh, yeah, to, uh, make or, uh, design elements more compelling.

And this one is the proximity. So recall we introduced one one the computational models for this.

It's called Fitts law. Okay. And here you are seeing that fits like implementation of this.

Uh. Uh, this, uh, principle. It means that the things are close to closer together means that they are related together.

Okay. Like here. For you have this kind of emoji and you have some text for it.

It means that this these two are somehow related to each other.

And similarly these two are also related to each other.

Why? Because they are close enough. To make us to perform some action.

For instance, if I put some discount information for an, uh, Black Friday and instead of.

By the item as a text of this, uh.

This button. If I say that submit.

That means that. There. Not related.

And I am broken this principle from here. Okay.

And it's quite, quite simple to actually make an example and understand it.

But application again it is hard. And another one.

You will come. And read this kind of stuff a lot, especially in the coffee shops.

If they have coffee shops or some clothing, uh, shops, they always, uh, try to break, break the continuity.

But in reality, what we are doing, as in, uh, let's say people who are living in Europe, we are reading from left to right and it's continues for us.

But here some people, of course, wants to be creative and they are trying to break this rule.

But it happens in a very, very bad way. The ideal rhythm is the back to school, uh, sort of back to school sale.

What? Here. If you read the in, this one is back to school sale.

Okay. So it's very, very hard for us to actually read it in that sense.

So we don't need to be super creative, okay?

To play with words. Uh, otherwise it will, uh, it will open any problem for us.

And this is also a should you should follow also for your projects to.

So that's why we are saying that okay. Creativity is the secondary option in here.

You still have a control for the visual design elements. But most of the things will come from the principles that we teach.

And we want to see that examples of the things that we are teaching to you in here.

The. Another principle is the if some visual elements are moving in the same direction again,

it means that they are unified as a group or they are related to each other.

Okay. And the pronunciation of this one is this kind of accordion.

Uh, menu. Like if you click one of them, you can understand that, okay?

The text will be open and if you click the same, sorry, there's a third, uh, arrow in here.

It will behave in the similar way. Okay. Like, if you put this one, it will open like an accordion.

But if you click the second one, it will not open in the opposite direction.

Okay, so everything is moving in the same direction. Like the example that you are seeing in here.

Okay. Is this okay? Because sometimes the systems are using the Figma icons in a bit wrong way.

Okay. Like. And they are creating a new, uh. Newer PDF reader, for instance.

But they are not putting the arrows in the correct way, or the arrow in the first page is.

This is similar to the error in the third page,

so you can understand that they are presenting the same function with two different icons, so please try to avoid it.

Okay, this is a closure. And these are, uh, usually graphic design.

Likes a lot. It's hard to master, but, uh.

It gives them quite a, um, I would say if you see someone is applying this principle nicely,

you can be sure that, uh, he or she is very talented or he they see a lot of examples in this domain.

And the one of the example is the IBM's logo. And you see these are just the horizontal lines.

They break in some parts of it, but at the end we are not perceiving this, uh, kind of, uh, uh, lines individually.

We are seeing them as coherent in a coherent way.

And that is in Germany called in German language called Gestalt.

Okay. Principle of coherence. Unity or uniformity?

In the in the, uh, in the perceptual system.

And these are only a few examples of it. Okay.

And people are still. Discovering new Gestalt laws and, uh.

Yeah. That's it. But we are not expecting you to follow all of them and perform all of them in your design.

But it is better to understand. Okay. The usage of them, and a few examples which will be you will be responsible in the exam.

Okay. In the exam, for instance, I will show. This, uh, gif and I will say that.

Okay, the designer, uh, created this kind of, uh.

Uh, it can be interfaced also. It's not a problem in the game.

This kind of, uh, items. And which guest of principle is applied in here?

Okay, so it's applied. Closest principle of the close.

Okay. And, uh, for the game, uh, gamer, uh, students.

And, uh, for the ones that are creating the game, uh, interface.

These principles are a lot. Okay. A lot, a lot of these principles are implemented in the single, even single interface.

And the one of the GDC game developers, uh, developer conference one, uh, let's name one, uh, presenter.

Shows a lot of examples in the Gestalt principles.

And this one is, uh. I don't think that it is her, uh, game, but she shows these examples.

And from here, what kind of principles that you are seeing? Okay.

Exam question. I'm giving this one to you.

This part, this game interface and asking you name at least two Gestalt principles implemented in this interface.

Forces in here. This one.

There is a circle inside the circle. The reason I don't know splash is that splash.

There is a three. This looks like.

This one. You. Figure ground.

And how about those guys? These are all.

Or the entire, uh, matrix in here, you see?

And it looks like at this point you assume that the principles. Why?

Because you are seeing the similar item or the same item. And the same thing again I existing here.

And sometime we don't know that we are applying this kind of principles, but in reality we are doing actually.

Okay. Then, uh. How about this to.

This one and this one. The cost. Can be proximity.

Like here. Like you imagine this is the.

Icon. This is the text. And here you have an icon and the text.

Okay. Proximity. And of course, we don't have a common fate like the one that they're, uh, uh, moving.

Here. But you get the idea how to discover this kind of principles from the interfaces.

Okay, this is a bit hard, but how about this one?

This is quite easy. Let's say here what you have.

The background colour. And let's say this button. Or the background image.

And this button. Yes.

Yep. Check rank principles in here. Okay.

Let's say. Where the.

Okay. Anything else? Maybe this two. You are seeing an icon and the next icon there is in the description.

See what? Symmetry. Yeah.

Proximity. Look in here. Proximity. And not renaming them.

Okay? Otherwise I will confess it. Okay. Symmetry.

What does we have? This guys we have.

The one that we already introduced. Like. It's one similarity.

You see some of them we already named? Actually, we discovered in here.

I didn't know this exist. Proximity. A similarity in here.

Figure ground in here. Common region. I don't know what this is, actually.

He didn't introduce it. Okay.

Okay then which one is usable or you can use for your project.

Let's say for the high fidelity prototypes. Which one?

You can use it. All of them.

One of them. Maybe you can discover one by yourself.

And if you discover, let me know. Then we can write the paper and say that.

Okay. It is. Or, uh, these astronauts are discovering one, uh, Gestalt principles.

Which doesn't exist in the literature. Okay.

Okay. The second. The third one is the memory. And that is a bit interesting actually, because.

Of. It's quite related to our heuristics.

And we will see one of them, actually. But the principles are quite solid.

The working principles are. We will summarise otherwise.

If you need more detail, just ask me from the comments and I will give some additional materials for you.

So oftentimes you are, uh, uh, using three different memory systems for the human.

These are for the human, okay. Not for the frogs and for the other animals we will use for the human.

The first one is the sometimes they call sensory memory. Or sensory information.

And we will say that this is a sensory memory for us.

And it is instant. Okay. And let's check if I can reach with the lights.

Let's. I say maybe. It's not working.

So was it. And that's right. Like the example for the sensitive memory can be.

Something like this. Okay.

You see the light in here? And if I draw, try to draw some stuff in here.

You will see the continuity of the light. You. Yes or no?

My kid. It's not that. Singled out, singled out, singled out.

It is. Somehow it's a continuity. It will be. Let's say I will be again.

This it? It's not.

Two seconds. Yeah. So you are perceiving some, uh, sensory information?

Yeah. And you are registering in your memory. Uh, in a very, very short period of time.

That's why you can see that it's something like an, uh, circle moment for you.

And this is we call, uh, sensory memory or sensory information, which actually we cannot do too much like.

So we will just post leaving stuff and registering for to be input for the short term memory.

And this one is important.

Short term memory, especially for the one that's, uh, who are creating the, uh, let's say, uh, gaming environment or game interfaces.

And we know that in some, uh, studies, data driven studies, they come up with the one magic number seven plus or minus two.

Okay. I'm not sure this is, uh, verified in the, uh, in the literature a lot, but you can assume that.

In each time. You should only give plus minus two.

Yes, you should give the seven the items to your, uh, user.

But you can be flexible in the range of the.

Four and the nine. Okay, like if I created lists in here at ten lists, probably you cannot process it.

But here you only have a three list. And we are in the range of the seven.

So it means that you can process it easily. And of course, if you are rehearsing, which means that you are repeating again,

again, again, again some, uh, information or some digits or some gaming environment.

So it means that this information will be consolidated and it will be registered into your a long term memory.

Okay. For the exam you can expect that I will give a one, uh, one, uh paragraph.

Let's say for a hypothetical user in front of hypothetical a game, and I will ask what kind of memory employed for this task for this user.

Okay. Or how you can improve the experience of the user by using the concepts that we teach to you.

Okay. This is a test. What was the six?

Heuristics of the Nielsen. Let's see who has a bigger.

Uh, what was an, uh, a nice long term memory. Anyone remembers.

Now, of course, we will not expect you to remember. Okay.

And that's. Important terroristic, but you are not expected to remember.

And again, we need to help you. Yeah. Like, if I am a good designer, then I need to help you to answer this question at least how we can employ it.

And this is the sixth of them. A recognition rather than recall for the need.

Some heuristics. And of course, this is just an definition of luck.

And if I am a good designer, I will not allow my users to recall.

I will have time to recognise. Okay.

And one example is the giving the guiding text while you are typing some search elements or search, uh, questions.

And another thing is this one. Okay. So expect this kind of setting in your example.

Okay. Like here I will give you let's say this part.

Only this part. So this is clearly a, uh, clearly, uh, uh, uh, recall scenario where you enter a new, uh, gaming,

uh, but it open again, uh, steam web page and you have six different emails and steam say that.

Okay. Enter your email address in here. Of course you have six of them.

Which one is you? Until you you cannot recall.

But if a stream has a good system that will recognise your browser ID and it will guide you like in here.

Okay. Of course, it will not give that full information because other people can use the same, uh, same computer.

So this is the how steam or the design of the of this team is helping me.

Okay. My email address is, uh, el Asterix Asterix, Asterix Skywalker.

Gmail. Of course. If you know who is this Ella Skywalker, you can easily guess that's not a problem.

Uh, but again, the idea is the recognition part is satisfied or the given by the designer, and she or he did a very good job in this.

Uh, solve this problem. Okay. Do you agree with me?

Okay. Instead of trying hard for recall.

But which one is my email? Otherwise, I have to submit six of them.

But here the designer helped me with the. We did quite a nice, uh, listening and nice visual design elements like here,

give the information and make it a bit, uh, uh, distinguishable that I can read it.

And the given, uh, enough clue that I can type all of them.

So that was, uh, the example that, uh, designer can help your memory to make it more functional.

Uh, in the, uh, more functional, uh, the interface.

Okay, now we are moving. The learning and learning is a bit close to cognition.

Yeah. Okay. Close to thinking. Close to close to, uh, this kind of design elements.

But we will still say that learning is part of cognition.

Okay? Not, uh, they are not.

They are. How can I say you cannot, for instance, define the cognition terms with learning.

And vice versa. Okay, I can in the machine learning.

How do you define the learning? You are taking a machine learning class in.

Okay. What is the in there? Supervised learning.

What is the learning part? You don't know or you don't remember.

Okay. Improved performance over time or over the sample?

Yeah. Sometimes you cannot work in the temporal domain. And how can measure the performance.

Breaks like this in those about just because I'm in a supervised learning okay.

So to simplify in that sense okay. Doing something repeatedly.

And getting better. Yeah, that is the learn and the same, uh uh, same definition with some announcement can be also applied in our setting.

And we will say that okay, if you are acquiring new understanding knowledge, behaviour skills then you are learning.

This is a cognitive. Cognitive, uh, side of the learning, not, uh, competition side that we are using for the machine learning.

But you will find commonality, uh, between them.

And we are, uh, grouping or categorising or learning in to, uh, part like, uh, we did for the cognition two.

Uh, this is something we did for the cognition two. But in the machine learning it is different.

We have unsupervised. Unsupervised?

Uh, okay. I will stay in there. In the machine learning, we have a supervised reinforcement learning, self-supervised learning.

Unsupervised learning. We have a lot of options here. We will only go in, uh, to uh, to setting one is the, uh, incidental learning.

So it means that you are not showing any deliverance, any plan. You are just learning instantly.

Like in the first lecture, you are coming here and you are seeing some faces.

But over time, with my interaction and with your interaction with some people, you are associating this.

People name these people's names with their faces.

Okay. So that becomes an incidental learning.

And another one. Is this somehow a deliberate thing you are planning?

Like you are saying that. Okay, I will attend to this, uh uh uh, department.

I will be an undergrad students, and at the end of three years, I will have a degree.

And that degree will allow me to attend the masters degree in the other country in the maybe more robotic, uh, the more robotic departments.

And throughout this steps, you will learn something. You will learn autonomous systems, you will learn human computer interaction, some other courses.

And that becomes. Your deliberation, your plan, and we are calling this one an intentional learning.

And at the end of intentional learning, you are achieving some goals.

That's important. One of the, uh, differences between here and here.

And do not confuse this one with the cognition.

Remember that we have a something like here experiential cognition.

But it is different than learning. Okay. Do not confuse it. Okay.

And the rest of the, uh, section. You can check the commerce.

And you can read it and you will be responsible for the exam for this too.

Uh, there's two concepts to. Okay.

And the next semester you will see a lot of of.

A lot of different approaches to cognition, and one of them will be cognitive robotics.

And we will go and see in details and maybe at the end of, uh, next semester's class, you will do a cognitive agent as a project.

And here are a few interesting studies about the cognition. One of them is this, I believe the Japanese.

Uh uh uh uh uh, patient.

They open the school of this patient in here and put some.

Uh, electricity excites some neurones in that array.

And that area is related to fish facial processing for this individual.

And they put first. This kind of let's say this is, I guess, uh, non-fatal face related item.

Like this ball, it's clear that there is no face on it, but once they are exciting the neurones in that area, the patient see the face.

Okay. And you see in some ways that it.

Is there something wrong with me? Oh, rainbow.

Whatever. I don't know. Changes in. I saw and I want.

Okay. I'm going to on you.

Huh? Am I just imagining something about the other stuff? In reality, this is very, very interesting stuff.

Yeah, like in whatever we are teaching in here, we are saying that the external environment is important.

To you to see the interfaces interact with the interfaces.

But in reality, most of the things happening in our brain, of course we cannot reach that individual level.

Okay. To design a product for each individual that we have.

But just be aware that human cognition can behave differently if you have some, uh, brain conditions.

Okay. So that's why we have to diversify or solutions and, uh, go and understand deeply what's going on in human physiology and the brain especially,

and try to understand it to develop an some a friendly product for them.

And of course, humans are not, uh, listening special.

We also have some other animals in our stuff. And here you will see this interesting study.

If you put boxes. How many of you have a cat?

Okay? Yeah. Your cat likes boxes.

Yeah. If you put them, they will jump in the boxes.

But in reality, that boxers does not need to be 3D.

Okay, so if, uh, something looks like bucks.

Okay. With, uh uh uh, uh, rectangular drawing, they will put themselves inside.

And that does not need to be in the full circle, full triangle, sort of full rectangle.

If the you know, this illusion, illusion and the cats are also susceptible this kind of illusions.

So human cognition is quite, quite interesting actually. Okay.

I mean you can learn one topic that's you can say that, okay, I am master of the topic, but later you will read another, uh, study within that topic.

Then it will change your whole knowledge, uh, considering in that domain.

So these are the stuff that I can mention. Please attend the practice session if you have a question about your grades.

And we postponed the, uh, next, uh, uh, assignment.

So please be on time. And. Okay.

