[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Lecture will be the probably the most dangerous one, both for designer and for the users.

So please be careful. Learn the basic lingo and the principles put on the statue and for your assignments.

I just peruse them and most of them are okay, but some of them are did did quite so rookie mistakes like the they use blue text.

In the, uh, in the in the main body. So just be aware that okay, this kind of formatting formatting style will be important.

And, uh. Other than this, uh, I see.

No. Oh. No huge mistakes.

So your grades will be, uh, able to get the grade that you expect.

So today, tomorrow it will be announced. Okay.

So what we did previously, we introduced the principles, heuristics for the usability, uh, perspective of the HCI.

So do you have any questions? Regarding the or, uh.

Uh, principles. Heuristics and the feedback. All right.

So up to now this lectures we finished six of them.

So it means that okay six weeks passed and you learned a lot okay.

But still, probably something will not make sense until you finish your project.

And here is the one of the reflection essays that I asked from the students.

And I select one of them and it's complete.

They actually summarise what we want to give and without touching anything, just making some bold fonts in here.

Just take a few time, a few minutes to read it. And I am sure that you will feel the same thing.

Maybe you are already feeling, but just trust the system and at the end you will end up like this student.

Okay. Did you finish? Okay, most of you are finished.

So just trust the system under that. You see the cycle that we are teaching to you.

And if you apply. Throughout, uh, for your projects, then you will definitely feel at the same way that the student is feeling.

And I'm getting a lot of comments, actually, after the lectures for the third year students,

the some of the principles that we teach them, they are, uh, applying them for their thesis, especially the thesis.

Cool. And today, today's quotes will be based on time and again.

And he has something to say about the colours, because we introduced him a lot in the first lecture and let's give him more credit.

And what he said, he said that having small touches of the colours makes it more colourful than having the whole thing in colour.

Okay. So he just want warn us.

Okay. If you are using the colour, so be it. Be.

Be, uh. Be careful about it.

Instead of making the whole thing colour, just add a few colours and later we will show that okay, why you need to add colour for your design.

Okay. This. Today we will introduce the visual design element.

And here you will see why. Using colour it's dangerous okay.

And now most of you are laughing and you will say that, okay, we will never,

ever experience this kind of colour, design, colour, whatever, uh, that you are seeing.

But believe it or not, people are doing it okay. And in their defence, they said that, okay, this is our pleasure.

The things that we are seeing, the world is like this. That's why we want to do in this way.

Perfect in your, uh, private life or in your personal life, whatever you are doing.

You are free. But here we should consider our users.

Yeah, that's why I said in the beginning, this lecture is the most dangerous lecture for the existence.

Okay? And if you type, uh, some principles of visual design, you will come up with this kind of list from the Google, which is incomplete.

Okay. But it will give you, uh, some nice, uh, ideas about, uh, what are the things that in your control, okay, to affect your, uh, users visually?

And of course, there is a reason that we need to go under.

Not all of them, but some of them that you will apply to your, uh, your project.

And in this list you are free to use whatever you are choosing. Okay, except for the colour okay.

Whenever you are using colour in your design, you have to. Come up with some idea behind it, okay?

You are not allowed to use colour blindly.

If I see colour in your design, then it means some functionality to me.

Okay. Red will mean something. Green will mean, uh, something to me.

And that's, uh, not only for me, but for your users. The. Okay, let's create a bit, uh, colour in the, uh.

In the domain of the art and the visual design or the interactive design.

This one is from a mondrian. And you see this colourful yellow.

And everything is under his control. And if we make as if I make a survey in here.

Okay. Probably all of you will say different types of things about this.

Uh. Uh, this, uh, this, uh, paint. But when it comes to the, uh, interaction design or visual design, we have one basic.

A purpose on it, which is usability. If you are using this kind of dashboard for the Covid or for your finance.

Uh, transactions. So it should be some functionality.

Yeah. Like it has to be easy to read on the device that you are using.

But for this kind of, let's say, design or paint, you don't need the, uh, designer or the painter in here.

Wondrium does not care about the functionality of the. His painting is.

And that's why we are saying that arts part of this course is a bit trimmed down.

Okay, we are not artists. We are a designer. But still we can inspire and get some artistic purposes for it.

Okay. But if you like this colour palette, like the last time we did in the.

Practice sessions. You can steal this colour palette from Kathmandu.

Okay. Just to check this, uh, give, uh, a bit.

Let me go back and come back. Okay.

Just check this, uh, give, uh, split carefully in the next slide.

Okay, let me reset it. Ouch!

Yes. I said too much.

Yeah. So slowly, slowly.

It's getting in shape. So basically removing the all elements in this basic, uh, work, uh, template.

And you see the end result is quite readable, quite functional and quite usable for us as a, as a reader, as an, uh,

let's say you did this kind of table in your, uh, thesis, then the second reader will prize your design skills.

Okay? And it happens once. I hopefully it will be it will happen a lot.

So just get some inspiration from that. We are not expecting you to be a super artistic, uh, skill, but we are expecting you at.

Then you will provide that usable and functional product, uh, at the end of this, uh, course.

Okay. And in this course, we will, uh, in this lecture,

we will go and just give enough information for you to navigate in the domain of visual design and based on the principles that we teach,

you can easily apply to your, uh, to your project.

So from here, let's say. Let's say.

This is the order current, not current, but one year or two years ago.

What page of the DCA? Just tell me a few visual elements in here.

Okay, that you can use for your, uh, group project. Okay, which is that element, uh, design element that you are asking.

To, um. Great found.

Great panels. Perfect. We will teach it. Buttons. What is the button in Vietnam?

Okay. Who also.

News, latest news updates in here in no.

This one. Okay. Yeah, actually, we are calling this, uh, kind of buttons.

Call to action buttons. Okay. So later you can use for your other projects, uh, to, like, uh, whenever you are having a one, uh, application.

There are. Basic affordances in there.

That's just invite to click. Okay.

Back here, if you want to see Bachelor programs just click this one.

Master programs click this one and the well as we follow.

And what else we have. The obvious one.

We have some colours here. And the dominant colours in this web page.

It comes from. I heard you say something.

Yeah. From the exact.

I think if you check in here, logo is basically white, blue and golden and you see almost everywhere white, blue and golden around, uh, this webpage.

Of course not the exact tones, but the some different variations of it.

Okay, so that's cool. And with this, uh, uh, kind of visual, uh, design, let's say in this web page,

the designers or the, uh, that's web developer teams wants three, three things, uh, from us.

Once they want to guide us. Okay.

That's where we can, uh, find an important information and how we can figure out among this design elements where we are,

where we are in the sense that we are a bachelor's students. If you create this one, then it means that.

Uh, you can find the relevant information from this. Okay.

Um, this, uh uh uh uh, since this, uh, button is, uh, the colour of this button is different than this one.

So I can assume that the web developer in here say that.

Okay, this web page basically built, uh, by considering the much the problems.

Okay. Because it's already somehow clicked in here.

Or the first call to action is for that. Uh uh uh uh, that a user group?

Yeah, you can say that. Okay. The guidance is good in here because I am a bunch of students, and the first thing that I can click is this button.

So it gives me. Very well. For the case.

Okay. The pace you can consider about the relationship, like if you are in that, uh, bachelor programs in that link.

So you shouldn't expect. An HR web page of the book University.

What you should expect. You should expect some critical information. You should expect some, uh, eligibility criteria of the university.

Or tuition fee of the university. So all the related information, uh, the bachelor program or the master program has to be.

What? In the related area, or in the related buttons that are given to you.

And last one is the message. Again, you want to emphasise something in the, um, in the, uh, in this, uh, application.

What? That's something it means sometimes it can be a registration, maybe that the bachelor, uh, web page will change in the registration period.

Because why? Since I've adjusted the courses since, um.

Uh, asking, uh, relevant information from the, uh, professors and instead of professors are applying to email,

we are putting that information to this, um, uh, this address, and you can automatically find it by yourself.

Okay. So just, uh, think about that with, uh, almost every kind of design elements that we are using, we want to give three functionality.

And these are the guiding pacing and uh, uh, giving the message to the.

And this is for the university webpages. But if you are designing, for instance, a game web page, then the pace can be much more quickly.

Instead of giving just a static link in here or here, what you can do,

you can give a video or you can bombard your users with some gameplay, uh uh, gameplay.

Uh, it gives like here that we did. So it's up to you the thing that you need to use it.

Just be aware that we are using visual design elements for, uh, these three purposes,

and how you are using it is based on your background, your user specification, and the functionality of your application.

Okay. So. Probably the.

One of the most, uh, important thing among this.

Uh uh, uh, elements are a hierarchy. Okay.

Hierarchy means that, okay, there are some relation between the things that we are proposing to our users.

Yeah. Like let's say you are doing this.

Let's see here. I will open a new webpage. Uh.

Another times. And I'll thank you.

Tunnel. Okay. Not here.

So imagine this one looks like an Wikipedia page.

Wikipedia. Rome. Like the.

In here. Also, we have some hierarchy. Why? Because we have a title.

We have a description, a text body, and we have some representative images.

But this kind of design or this kind of, uh, hierarchical, uh, design.

Is not suitable for the. Newspaper websites.

Yeah. So that's why if we know.

It's it makes sense for the different types of web page, different type of application, different type of hardware.

You can use that. Uh, hierarchical design components.

Based on your, uh. Based on your, uh, function that you decide.

And what you see in here. Let's say.

You see a one design element in here on this web page from the, uh, from the Another Times.

And you can change the size of every design component. Yeah.

If the text is smaller, then you can make it bigger. If the photo is smaller than you can make it to resize it to be bigger.

And whatever you are doing in here should contribute to functionality, should contribute to usability of your product.

Okay, we are not doing that blindly. Again, I will not go and give that all example for, uh, every example for this, uh, list.

But here, for instance, just. To introduce a few of them.

First the size. You like the size in here. Among the, uh.

The first needs are a uniform.

Look at the size of this one is the equal to this one. But once you jump up in here, size is changing.

Okay. So it means that the designer in here gives more emphasis to this area.

Rather than this idea. Okay, but.

For this panels. Some things are not changing.

Okay. Like the colour in here is not changed. Okay.

And colours in here and in here as in uh topic is not changed.

And I believe the also size of the text is not changed in here. So it's the same.

So we're just changing one single element in the same structure.

You are giving the different message. You are guiding your user in a different way.

Okay. So if you click this one and it opens, you are sure that okay, these names are either more important or more,

uh, up to date comparison to this kind of, uh, uh uh, this kind of, uh, news.

And of course, it's not for the only for the, the newspapers that are also.

One of those. Like I said. In the magazines.

You can also see a lot. But even without clicking, I will see some panels in here.

And I will see some structures. Some structures are not changing like this banner will not.

This part will never change. Okay, like you see, the banner is the same.

When I same. But in here the main page.

We have a lot of images, but the images have different type of, uh, different, uh, sizes.

Okay. And if you are giving to just the uniform size for the everything that's, uh, you have like an all images are in the same,

uh, same size, all the texts are in the same font and all let's say grids are in the similar fashion.

Then it means that you are playing with the monotonous way,

and the users will definitely disengage and then not read or not click to whatever you are, uh, proposing to them.

Okay. So based on this elements in here okay.

What kind of hierarchy that you are seeing in here.

First. The first question that I will ask usually for your product for your project too.

So you are seeing this webpage. And what is the.

User of the webpage. I can imagine that Utrecht University hired you as a designer.

So what is the. Users that will generally use this webpage.

Okay, students, but. Okay.

Now it's very, very general. Let's make it a bit compact.

Students, but bachelor students. Spacious rooms.

But it says mastery. Bachelor's students who will finish the program and join them.

Okay, that makes sense. And do you think they did a good job in here?

Again, you will graduate soon. All of them. In, uh, one year or one and a half year.

And do you think this web page is designed for you? Just take the layout and see the basic, uh.

Like what you are. Uh. Okay. You see this web page? What will be your.

First two actions on this webpage where you will click.

What do you look? Click. Their contact.

Maybe tuition fee and financial support. For some kids.

But oftentimes actually we are clicking. Uh, not that I know.

Maybe the brochure. Okay. I want to understand, okay, what kind of critical that they are giving or where their alumni are working.

This will be useful information for me. So overall, I will say that.

Okay. This, uh. But is this part of webpages designed well for the students?

Because with the single click, the students can access the information they need.

Assuming that this part is, uh. Uh, hosting the information that I need for my, uh, for my registration.

And again, the pattern in here is the same. Yeah. Liking the colour scheme of the webpage comes from their, uh, local.

And usually this kind of colour schemes are defined in the brain brand identity.

Okay. So you cannot change. And in some cases, if you change it, uh, they may also sue you.

Okay. Like, uh, anyone from Germany?

You. Germany. No. Versus in the Germany there is one, uh, university, which I was then, actually Humboldt.

Home will. University.

Of darling. Okay.

Let's say local. In the logo, we have William Alexander.

This guy is two guys. Okay. And they are looking at specific direction okay.

Looking at the direction. And in one presentation, one random person actually did reverse this, uh, logo again, reverse this logo.

They are looking the other direction. And before even starting.

Okay, a few professors in Germany say that. Okay. You cannot do this.

So it is that, uh, kind of, uh, important sexually visual identity of a brand.

Okay. And here or, uh, below the department.

Okay, that's a bit Rostam. Okay.

Do you think it's a good design for it? As a users that you jump up to this web page.

As a student. Okay, you are probably a visit this one.

A few times, I guess. This is from the last year.

But more or less the same as. Is it?

Go to website or. Can you find all the information that you are looking for?

No. Think it is not well designed.

Okay. With the students in mind. Because that part, the one that we show at the beginning, it's for good.

This one. I guess this is from the university itself.

But this one from the DCA or on the department.

Here. There are a bunch of texts. That's probably. Gives a lot of information, but unrelated to, uh, students here directly jump up to the, um.

Uh, research, which is not good because students are not coming here for generally in for research, but they are coming here for the education.

Maybe, uh, next year I will give an, uh, one student group.

Okay. They will redesign the Or webpage and propose them.

And maybe they can get some commission or some money for their design.

Okay. Cool.

Okay, then let's move to another one. The typography.

I know you are getting bored about the Steve Jobs, but do you remember his, uh, Stanford commencement speech?

Like, stay hungry, stay foolish. No.

Come on. This is the super famous one. Okay.

I will show one, uh, Steve Jobs commencement speech.

This one. I can guarantee that you will notice.

You don't know? Okay. Who previously said this one?

Nobody. It's my first time to.

The intergroup that they are not aware of this stuff, which is good.

Go and watch it. But I will just give the. One part of its.

Got a call in the middle of the night asking the same high school cheap call parents savings.

It was entire life. Okay. Made. Didn't.

It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room, so I slept on the floor in friends rooms.

I returned Coke bottles for the five cent deposit.

Pete College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy in the city, and intuition turned out to be priceless later on.

Let me give you one example. Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country.

Calligraphy is the handbook throughout the campus.

Every poster, every label on every drawer was beautifully hand telegraphed because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes.

I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I learned about serif and sans serif typefaces.

You will hear a lot in this lecture too, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations,

about what makes great typography great.

It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating.

None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life.

But ten years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me and we designed it all into the Mac.

It was the first computer with beautiful typography.

If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts.

And since windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have them.

Okay. So basically the gist of the story that he dropped out to college,

but to get the typography classes and of course, at the beginning it doesn't make sense.

Or can I, can you where you will use the typography unless you are a graphic designer.

Then he uses, uh, multiple fonts in the, uh, Apple uh, systems.

And here, actually, it is your turn. Maybe you will get some inspiration.

Okay, do the second half of. Yeah.

Another, uh, design element for us is the typography. Oftentimes it's neglected or people are using, uh, default fonts.

Whatever they have. Let's say if they are in the, uh, windows, most often they are using the Calibri,

but they change to the Optus if they are, uh, using in the, uh, macros, they have their own typefaces, plus Helvetica.

But now we will just go and give enough information. Okay, so before starting, I need to ask one question and that will be a coffee question.

We know the uppercase and the lowercase letters in. Okay.

The pay, let's say, in here is. Okay, but this is not a coffee question.

Okay. And this one is the lower case. Okay.

Now my question to you. Where does this upper and lower case ah come from.

What's the origin? While we're not calling that a big letter and the small letter.

Because they are not changing with the numbers in. What does it comes from?

We don't know. Okay if you reply in.

How? Five minutes. You will get to coffee. Just think about it.

Go a bit back. In time undefined.

It doesn't need to be correct, but just making an educated guess.

So you. You have an idea. Right.

I try to. Okay, but go back. My favourite book.

Uh, I'm pretty sure. Separate stands for whatever you.

The upper. For three years.

We're all working in a case that was lower. And this is the hardest robbery.

Okay. Where did you learn this? I had. I.

Okay. Perfect. This story is, uh, uh, most correct. Like on the previously this you got the took away, uh, privacy.

This, uh, letters are designed. But they are not used always.

Why? Because we have a printing machine. And the most used one is this one here, like the lowercase one.

And they are putting this kind of uh uh uh uh letters in a box.

They are on the lower, uh, level of the shelves. And the other one.

The case is one in the high level of the shops. And it is easy to grab it and change it or put it back.

It's gone from here. And it is an endless.

Uh, what's an this domain?

Really like an if you are, uh, into the design or the typography, you can learn a lot of trivial about, uh, the, the, uh, the, uh, typography fonts.

And their functionalities.

But here we will go and give the basic information, and I will show you also how to get or where to get the detailed information.

So we are. Basically defining the typeface is the collection of the letters, numbers and the, uh, what's the punctuation?

Punctuation marks. Okay. And one thing that you need to understand, there is a difference between typeface and the font.

Okay. A font is the specific variation of the typeface.

That variation can be the size can be colour can be the, uh.

Uh, let's say italic, bold chain, monospace, whatever that, uh, belongs to here.

So fonts and typefaces are different.

Please don't forget it will be exam question. So everybody wake up.

Okay. Take note. So here, let's say you have a one.

The typeface. It's where. Some OpenType typeface, and this is a typeface version itself.

But when you make it better than a bolt or verdana tan, uh, size with tan, it becomes a font for you.

Okay. So just be careful about the this users and the current.

They actually you will see the blog posts. You will see YouTube videos they are using interchangeably.

Okay. Since uh. It is coming into their domain.

They can use interchangeably. But here I would expect you to know that difference between typeface and font.

Okay. Cool.

And with the, uh, one typeface letter or the one, uh, font lettering here, you can play with a lot of information.

Okay. And one thing that we. Mostly use is their, uh, weight.

And their weight is basically the. How thick is the one stroke of the letter?

Okay. And they have a different variations, like the light one, uh, regular one, medium one, and the bold one.

Oftentimes, uh, we only have the regular one and the bald one.

But if you use something like Figma. You will have a lot of options.

Okay. And that options can be light, extra light, extra bold, completely black.

Okay. This kind of information. And of course, the usage of this kind of, uh, typefaces are different.

For instance. We are using the bold for the titles.

And the regular for the main text. Okay.

And the other part they have is some specific, specific functions, but we are not using it too much in the projects for instance.

You are free to use any combination of this one, but if you use the bold and the regular, it will be fine.

Okay. So we are not expecting you to choose more than three different fonts, or use three different fonts in the one screen.

And the one thing that also Steve Jobs mentioned the city fans sensitive.

Okay. These are the, uh, different type of the lettering, actually.

And the city fonts has this kind of, uh.

Endings like this kind of endings at the end, at the end of the letter and some reports we don't have an Italian around.

Italian or Italian speaking person. No.

Okay. What is instead of you means that that ending sunset.

If it's like a censor in a in Italian or here, it's in Latin.

I guess we don't say sounds means we don't. And then we also have a.

The alternative one is the monospace. I guess everybody in here already using a monospace without even realising it.

Okay. Probably you use Monospace maybe this week or you will use definitely in this week.

Can you guess in which area that you are using? Using it.

It means that you are typing. Yeah.

Your cholesterol most of the time is the, uh, water.

Can you give the examples of, let's say maybe other students are not aware which coordinator you are using?

We are not perfect. Like here if you go to VSCode.

And let's say type import. Or numpy.

As MP. Okay. And you see, of course, you cannot see actually.

But the. The size of each letter. The vertical size of each letter are same.

Okay,

like the distance between the beginning of the end and the end point of the M is equal to the distance between you and end of the starting and end.

So that's increased the readability. And it's also a problem to promote, uh, a troubleshooting.

Because if the size of the letters are the same, then you know that the length of the line will be the same.

Okay. And if you are writing the same, uh, same, uh, same, let's say execution step for your program.

And if you forget the semicolon at the end. Not for the Python for the C plus.

Plus, for instance.

Then if you have a that's a function or a that calling it the next line or the different line, you can easily debug to, uh, debug the uh program.

Okay. And, uh.

Let's see. Okay. Can one of you come here?

We will make a one challenge in here. And if you do in, let's say, 90% accuracy, you will get the coffee.

Just random person. The one that who thrust his finger.

Come on. Come on guys. Those.

Okay. Like here. Okay.

Last two years I did this one with hundred percent accuracy, but this time I don't know what will be here if I move this one.

Okay. Let's see. So I wanted.

Cool. So who wants to try?

You will just. I will go to the, uh, one again and you will just replace it.

Come on. Don't be shy. For this first.

This one. Or compete. Come here, you two.

Come here and you will come and we will give a break. Computer Committee.

So just to refresh it. Well, let's go with the.

Hello. Okay. To be. To me. Oh, I kind of love this one.

But you know what? You are just you have to check the distance between each other and you will put in an order that we do in a stupid way.

Then you will do. Okay. This is the. 72%.

Okay, then let's go with this one. Okay, now it's your turn.

Relax, okay? Nobody's. You mentioned that you are a new designer of this font.

Okay. I think I'm Tom.

So it's the like. Come here.

Let's see who will win 73. You know, you kind of.

On the. That's cool.

That's great. Thank you for your coffee.

Oh, yes. Okay. Three cup events. How did you get that [INAUDIBLE] angle?

I think that this would be the one that I witnessed. And this kind of exercises are good actually.

You will develop your intuition about the top phases on how to balance.

If you are a student in the graphic design department, one of the first things will be create a gigantic version of this let.

Just see the method and choose the one to output. Then you have to paint by itself.

I don't the, uh. But you have to create by yourself.

And with this money you will learn a lot of stuff like spacing contributed along the spacing.

Then you will learn that. Uh, the width of the stalls and how much of, uh.

Details about this the and. It is good. But, uh, it is alone.

But it seems to be a function of what we have. One historical record of Steve Jobs.

What makes. Okay, now we are.

We already said that. Okay. That this one is, uh, for the, uh, for the for.

Let me, um, the it will allow for the visibility plus the but finding.

And of course, it's evolving. Microsoft created Calibri.

It doesn't stay that. Two years ago, they released one, a new, uh, typeface called Optus.

And, uh, the purpose for this, uh, typeface is to be readable in the, uh, mobile form or in the, uh, readable for the, uh, tablet, like, uh, devices.

And now if you change, if you use the online version of any Microsoft products, it will come up with the updates.

This is my inbox. And you see the, the facelifted volt, uh, that this was, uh, Canadian.

But now this is obvious. Of course you can change whatever you want.

But if you are, uh, using the default one product, it means that you are in the safe zone.

Whatever. The device that you are using will be readable by your body and by your.

By local users, and there are some fonts that we should never use.

And, uh, one of them is the, um.

Is the Comic Sans. You already used.

Concerns. And it comes from the Microsoft Office.

But the person that created this, uh, comic sans, uh, is allergic to this animal contact.

So it's not that the, uh, kids don't want to play with the Microsoft design.

This one and the the it's come from, uh, this, uh, person.

And he also created another one, the television. Which is why they use it.

I also used in the last lecture, actually. Put up the most expensive time I'm using.

They have to come up now to chisel so much. And here's a long quote about the concepts.

So that's if you hate convictions. You don't know what's that facing.

If you like convictions, you also don't know what this book and be sure to reason.

It got it out. But I don't know. It's just for that purpose. Can we to some uh uh uh uh uh uh, fonts exist.

Even indicators must provide something. So I am sure that that exists, but not for consoles.

Cool that that's given a break and in the first place is being.

And for the coffee people. Uh, you want to go now or.

At the next. So the students who got the coffee.

You want to go now or after the lecture? Now what?

Now let's go. Uh, think. And for the other students, let me open the one of.

This program is brought to you by Stanford University. Please visit us at Stanford Dot.

Edu. If you didn't watch it, please watch it. It's it's a hidden gem.

Thank you. I'm honoured to be with you today for your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world.

Truth be told, uh, I never graduated from college, and, uh, this is the closest I've ever gotten to a college graduation.

Today, I want to tell you three stories from my life. That's it.

No big deal. Just three stories. The first story is about connecting the dots.

I dropped out of Reed College after the first six months, but then stayed around as a drop in for another 18 months or so before I really quit.

So why did I drop out? It started before I was born.

My biological mother was a young, unwed graduate student and she decided to put me up for adoption.

She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates.

So everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife.

Except that when I popped out, they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl.

So my parents were on a waiting list. I got a call in the middle of the night asking, we got an unexpected think boy.

Do you want it? They said of.

My biological mother found out later that my mother had never graduated from college, and that my father had never graduated from high school.

She refused to sign final adoption papers. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that I would go to college.

This was the start in my life. And 17 years later, I did go to college.

But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as Stanford,

and all of my working class parents savings were being spent on my college tuition.

After six months, I couldn't see the value in it.

I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life, and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out.

And here I was, spending all the money my parents had saved their entire life.

So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out okay.

It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back, it was one of the best decisions I ever made.

The minute I dropped out,

I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me and begin dropping in on the ones that looked far more interesting.

It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room, so I slept on the floor in friends rooms.

I returned Coke bottles for the five cent deposits to buy food with,

and I would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hari Krishna temple.

I loved it, and much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on.

Let me give you one example. Reed College at that time also perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country.

Throughout the campus.

Every poster, every label on every tour was beautifully hand telegraphed because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes.

I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I learned about serif and sans serif typefaces,

about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great.

It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating.

None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life.

But ten years later, when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me and we designed it all into the Mac.

It was the first computer with beautiful typography.

If I had never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts.

And since windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have come.

If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on that calligraphy class.

And personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do.

Of course, it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college, but it was very, very clear.

Looking backwards ten years later. Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward.

You can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connecting your future.

You have to trust in something your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever.

Because believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart,

even when it leads you off the well-worn path. And that will make all the difference.

My second story is about love and loss.

I was lucky I found what I love to do early in life was.

And I started Apple in my parents garage when I was 20.

We worked hard and in ten years, Apple grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company with over 4000 employees.

We just released our finest creation, the Macintosh, a year earlier, and I just turned 30, and then I got fired.

How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as Apple grew, we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me.

And for the first year or so, things went well. But then our visions of the future began to diverge, and eventually we had a falling out.

When we did, our board of directors sided with him. And so at 30, I was out and very publicly out.

What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone. And it was devastating.

I really didn't know what to do for a few months. I felt that I let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down.

That I had dropped the baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Parker and Bob Noyce and tried to apologise for screwing up so badly.

I was a very public failure and even thought about running away from the valley.

But something slowly began to dawn on me that I still love what I did.

The turn of events at Apple did not change that one bit. I've been rejected, but I was still in love, so I decided to start over.

I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could ever happen.

The heaviness of being successfully replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again.

Salvageable freed me to enter one of the most free periods of my life.

During the next five years.

I started a company named next, another company named Pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife.

Pixar went on to create the world's first computer animated feature film, Boy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world.

In a remarkable turn of events.

Apple bought X and I returned to Apple and the technology we developed next is at the heart of Apple's corporate renaissance,

and Laurene and I have a wonderful family together. I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple.

It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it.

Sometimes life. Sometimes life's going to hit you in the head with a brick.

Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept me going was that I loved what I did.

You got to find what you love. And that is as true for work as it is for your lovers.

Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work.

And the only way to do great work is to love what you do.

If you haven't found it yet, keep looking and don't settle.

As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it.

And like any great relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on.

So keep looking. Don't settle. My third story is about death.

When I was 17, I read a quote that went something like, if you live each day as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right.

It made an impression on me.

And since then, for the past 33 years, I've looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself if today were the last day of my life,

what I want to do, what I am about to do today and whenever.

The answer has been no for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.

Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life.

Because almost everything, all external expectations of pride or fear of embarrassment or failure,

these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.

Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know.

To avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose.

You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.

About a year ago, I was diagnosed with cancer.

I had a scan at 730 in the morning and it clearly showed a tumour on my pancreas.

I didn't even know what a pancreas was.

The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable, and that I should expect to live no longer than 3 to 6 months.

My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor's code to prepare the doctor.

It means to try and tell your kids everything you thought you'd have the next ten years to tell in just a few months.

It means to make sure everything is buttoned up, so that it will be as easy as possible for your family.

It means to say your goodbyes. I live with that diagnosis all day.

Later that evening, I had a biopsy where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach,

into my intestines, put a needle into my be increased and got a few cells in the.

I was sedated, but my wife was there and told me that when they view the cells under a microscope,

the doctors started crying because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery.

I had the surgery and thankfully I'm fine now.

But we you know we because living someone otherwise you know don't let the noise of others opinions drown out your own inner voice.

And most importantly, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.

They somehow already know what you truly want to become.

Everything else is second you.

When I was young, there was an amazing publication called the Whole Earth Catalogue, which was one of the Bibles of my generation.

It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand, not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with this poetic touch.

This was in the late 60s, before personal computers and desktop publishing.

So it was all made with typewriters and scissors and Polaroid cameras.

It was sort of like Google in paperback for 35 years before Google came along.

It was idealistic, overflowing with neat tools and great notions.

Stewart and his team put out several issues of the Whole Earth catalogue, and then when it had run its course, they put out a final issue.

It was the mid 1970s, and I was your age.

On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road,

the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous.

Beneath it, the words stay hungry, stay foolish.

It was their farewell message as they signed off. Stay hungry, stay foolish and I.

Okay. Let's start. Yeah. It's tough in many parts.

Yes. Yes.

This is. Know we mentioned about the basic one, and if you are interested with the introduction level, uh, to the uh, typography as please, uh.

You can check this book and you see in the here we have, um, sorry for sensitive, uh, typeface in here.

Come on. Sorry. Is this a typefaces? The serif typeface or sans serif one?

This one. Okay.

This one. Self one.

Why? Because at the end we have a this kind of, uh, um, and, uh, okay.

Thoughts. And now check the, uh, check the author's name.

Uh, looked them. And check this one.

It's also adding didn't looked in here but now she is using the sensor.

Here we have a set of copies and the. Next to it, we have an answer for.

Can you tell me why? The author is choosing a different type of face for different type of the book.

Of course, we may not know the actual reason, but. At this.

We can speculate about it, but I think. If you stick to the back of.

Uh, and with this second. It's more with that.

Okay. Yeah, I can accept this one. Anything else.

Now? Yes. Okay to me, actually, up here, uh, the author just shows her skills about, uh, she knows the history of the typeface.

Okay. That's why she chose the oldest one, which is sensitive.

And here. It's, uh, indicated in the title.

Yeah. Graphic design, new basics. And with this new basics, what she creates.

She chose the sans serif typeface image. Okay.

So one is, uh, let's say a bit, uh, historical one.

Okay, I'll draw one. And this is a new one. And the new one, she is using the new and modern typefaces.

And I said this one. And this is quite introductory level.

But a lot of details, if not, uh.

Good. Same. Over. Uh. Over. Over.

Over. Uh, teach you too much. But if you check it, the content is quite easy to read.

Once you are having a coffee next to the table, this kind of, uh, papers can be quite nice.

And you will learn a lot of, uh, things about, uh, uh, about the attack facing how we can create a new one or how to use the existing one.

In what purposes? Okay.

And we provided this link actually. What is?

It's. Oh. Were to use.

Okay. There should be another wedding. Okay. We'll find later.

Okay. What are we doing here? Okay with a rule of thumb for your, uh, design.

Just try to use only three. Maximum three. Different fonts in your, uh, one screen.

Okay. So, like, uh, if you are creating an, uh, uh.

Application needs Spotify. The title can be bold, the, uh, context text will be, uh, medium.

And you can also use the, uh, other variations in different parts of your, uh, parts of your, uh, design, but do not exceed three.

Otherwise your you will configure your users. And be consistent versus if title is the black.

Use, uh, close colour to the black in the body.

As one of the group groups added the title is.

Title is, uh, black, but the content is blue. So it was a bit hard to read it.

Okay, then let's move to the. Okay.

And of course, typography is not finished in here. If you have a letter, then you need to put that letter in an order.

Okay. What kind of space that you need. That we play the game or what kind of layout that you can use it.

And, uh, we are using, uh, the same.

We are using the oftentimes the left from the left to the right.

But that will change if you are using the different language in Arabic or the Hebrew.

And that depends also for your customisation.

Like if you are building an international application, then you have to be sure that your application works in the box.

For the reader who was reading left, the right or the right?

Left. And the.

You can also put your text in the middle, but that indicates something.

Okay. And that thing is like you are reading an essay at the middle.

People are putting in quotes. The most important part of that essay or quote from someone.

In the middle sentence because all your attention will go that.

If you don't have any time, or if you're just perusing the pages instead of reading from start to finish,

you are just reading the middle part of it, and you can get the gist of the article.

Uh uh, yeah, just gist of the article in the new in the screen.

And we don't have any alternatives. We can do that.

Left. Uh. Justified? Right. Justified.

And the centre or just justified? Okay.

But most of the time we would prefer this one. Left, right. Or justify text like the text in here.

One of the patients. See. Let's see.

Texting here is. I guess the left is justified.

You can do the just justified. So incentive. But don't do this in here because there's no text here.

Uh, above or below. And you can also go with this one.

And this is the most common that we are using. Just just justify like.

And it means that, okay, the equal space has to be between these two lines.

Or this lines as an equal spaced standard as one.

Okay. And I can also ask you how your.

Let's say. What is the. Thank you.

How your. Or how the Google Docs knows that.

There is an end of line in my text. Okay.

How it's gonna get in here? Especially for the letter A for the paragraph with a lot of words.

Did you take the algorithms and the lecture? No, not it in there.

Yes. Uh, did you learn dynamic programming? No, you don't remember?

And this is the way that's how dynamic programming applied. That's. Okay.

I will not go in detail because, uh, this, uh. Typeface are not only for the design elements.

There is also computer science inside it. Okay. And here the rule of thumb for us left the line text for the English text.

Most of the text that we are reading it and the right align one is for the Arabic and the Hebrew and the other language.

That's from the use the from left right centred one is like you are seeing in this example for pulling the summer quotes or summarising some,

uh, paragraphs in here, and or rule of thumb will not change and you will be asked during your uh,

project do not exceed maximum three fonts and three fonts are different than three typefaces will.

That's what the exam question. Cool.

I know we have a lot of, uh, examples, uh, combined with the logos and where we can use the typefaces and the logos,

and you don't need to knew this one, but you can understand that.

Okay. So these types are everywhere and we have to be a bit careful.

That's what we are using it because whatever we are using it will affect all users.

And that's why we have to be careful about our, uh, choices.

And another, uh, design element is the grids. And this is basically to give you a rule.

It's a structure that will give you a rule and structure in your text.

And it is common in almost every design software.

Like this one I am using or my students are using for their publications to create them, uh, to create the figures for the paper.

And in here, by default, you can go and create them grid for the empty pages.

The same thing exists also in the, uh, Figma that last time we see it.

And it gives you some functions.

One function, it has the hierarchy. Okay. Like I can know that.

Okay. The, uh, the elements in that area or in this grid, but.

It's somehow title. Okay. And this is the most, uh, readable part of my, uh, uh, my, uh, design.

And here we also have some grid like structures.

Like we have on, uh, this, uh, I guess this is the news or some information and this information replicated in here.

So it means that if you are using a grid. Then you are using your design procedure.

Why? Because the each grid elements have same.

Uh, purposes. Recall in all times we have been.

Photo. We have on topic and we have a descriptive text.

And each time we are not replicating. Each time we are not recreating a new element.

In here we are just copy pasting the same thing. Because it's a grid element, just changing the content.

And it's a way to standardise your standardise your interface.

Remember that one of the, uh, design principles, if everything is failed like you cannot create, then you agreed.

Or you don't know how to create a grid and check the standards, and that standards will guide you.

And there are some web standards about the grids. If you are interested. Uh, just check it.

That is on the charts for grids.

Okay. Just say. Okay, I will send it to responses from.

Oh, not this one. Anyway, I will change it later.

Just be aware that there are some frameworks with frameworks that allow you to, uh, standardise your, uh, grid.

And the main functionality that, uh, we are using for even, uh, presentation.

It aligns your design elements like here. You see that?

All starting part of this, uh, letters, uh, touching that grid.

So it's somehow giving coherence and uniformity of the elements existing here.

There are some links about uh uh uh uh, grids, but we will not go in detail what you need to know.

Only three things. One is the, uh, it should be 14 columns and, uh, row.

Columns on the rows. Okay.

And in Figma last time we practice it, you can automatically create this one.

So you don't need to go under handpick or the place order grids.

Another thing is the margins. Margin is basically the distance between the left and the right part of the grid to the corners.

Okay. And the margins, sorry. Groups are the distance between each grid cells in each.

And of course you will see the the design in here like the that part.

Imagine that there is a device in here and in here and that will be your margin.

Ouch. That will be our margin and this will be our growth.

And these are my, uh, columns. And these are the role of unsung heroes.

Okay. And this is, I guess, 2 or 3, three years ago or two years ago.

And use the grids you will see in everywhere, like an in even or a compass.

And we are using it for usability. Because it navigates it.

Guide us how to navigate in the environment.

And I feel that, yes, that's good because, uh, all of the elements in here will be introduced in the same fashion.

That will increase their usability. And lastly, efficiency will be increased.

Both for your users and for your design. Because if you are using it in here, let's say four by two grid in this one.

You don't need to replicate or recreate the same thing again for the next year.

Okay, you can just put the placeholders in here and their users will automatically upload their,

uh, their, uh, photos and, uh, titles and, uh, so much information.

Cool. I know it's a bit boring that parts, but now this is a bit interesting.

Colours. This is hard. Okay. Please do not use this one.

And let's see some famous examples. This guy's.

Do you think this is an actual website? Yes.

No. Why? Then this actually exists.

I mean, this one probably violates everything that we introduce in here.

Yeah. And I am sure none of your group projects will resemble like this.

Okay, then you can be proud of yourself. Okay.

Even the Yale, uh, University of Yale.

University art department. You will be better than them.

And let's see. This is the universe. Like this one is 20, uh, 22 or 21, and this one is their.

Four years later. And you see they are purposely not following the design element stuff you.

What is the reason? Because they are, uh, designers.

They should know. Just wait.

Uh. In other. Why they are not following the design rules.

Come on. Like this one.

Like 0.1. Even like a frame inside the.

Stuff. The answer is.

I think. That's a good point, but we shouldn't agree with them in Lycan because they are not a designer.

And if you. If I hire you to redesign my website.

Or the Justice Department's website. And if and if you end up like this.

So forget about your current. Okay? Never contact with me again and I will put you in the blacklist.

So you will never, uh, send me an email again. So.

But, uh, this is the article again. The.

Your friends say that they can do whatever they want, but the message in here to me is the they are a vanguard like.

And they are leading the other stuff. That's why they know road very well and they can brake as they wish.

Okay, but we are not at that level. So this lecture is recorded and I will send, uh, this message to the future students who are not in here.

Please do not design like this one. Okay. And they do not bring this web.

Then tell me that. Okay, you show some slides in the lecture and we try to copy.

Uh, copy. That's a design. So don't do this, okay?

Like the students that who are putting in the background sound becomes a soundtrack for, uh, every product.

So down to this. I know they are common, actually.

Of course, some of them can be in some, uh. Uh, trolling purposes.

But they are, uh, incredibly common. And the thing that's you cannot teach them.

That's the one of the problem with this kind of, uh, design, uh, uh, artistic tendency.

Okay. And of course, uh, these are the, uh, artists who can say that.

Okay. We are not your domain, so you can do whatever you want.

But in the design domain to like in the software, uh, domain to look at this one.

If you remember, it's Microsoft Bob. I mean, every kind of colour exists in here.

Yeah, it's a mess. Even they didn't follow the super basic principles like.

And there should be in the contrast between the foreground and background. Like here, this dog colour is exactly the same with that.

And in this, uh uh uh uh, product.

I don't think that should be. Uh, yeah, that should be, uh, we should allow them to sell the same product in the in, uh, in here.

So. Like and almost exactly same design.

But only the, uh, text is different.

And if you mix these two, then you will be in danger. Yeah, we are laughing, but people are still doing this.

Okay in here also where they want the interface. I don't remember in the which company probably is Microsoft.

Uh, during the holidays. They want to be super experimental, and they provide this kind of, uh, stuff to us.

I guess it's Microsoft because they that window in here. And paint and not that is here.

I probably Microsoft. Cool. And now.

One of the, uh, presentation that you are already familiar with it.

Hi. Today I want to try you all.

As you can see, it's currently loading. Just pay attention to the colour scheme in here.

We're just going to see how it works. I have some things that I would like to try out.

So we just see where it goes. Ouch.

After. It's not. Hi.

Later on if you don't need audio description.

Okay, let's look at my preferences. Hey, I'm lactose intolerant.

Come on. Hi.

Yeah. Seems fine. Okay. Just have a look at my favourites.

I've. Okay. The, uh, dominant colour is here in, uh.

Uh, is, uh, what's in, uh, green? And there is a reason because the the reputation is ethical.

Um, ethical product recommender. Uh, up.

And they want to be a bit natural. Okay. So they choose the green. Beforehand.

Uh, okay. Uh, credit score is like, take this one since I need.

Concentrate as well. The prices for my case.

So what I want to show in here like an Or students can design better.

Then. Previous Microsoft engineers and designers.

So at the end of this course, you can be proud of yourself or have a better sense of design or the colour usage than the Yale School of Art.

Of course, nobody's aware it's. But just you can be proud of yourself for creating that level, uh, of, uh, uh, designer design for your, uh, project.

And of course in the Asia domain. Colour is not only for aesthetic purposes.

Please don't forget, whenever we are changing colour, it means that we are changing the functionality.

Okay. Like in the one page, if your, uh, if your button is the green and in a little page it is yellow.

So I will assume that. Okay. The same.

Functionality shouldn't be provided. When I click the yellow and.

When I click the green. So bear in mind that it has to be uniform.

And with the colour we can use for a lot of purposes. And one thing that we are using it is the indicator indicating the status.

Okay. Like you logged in or there is an error in the system, then you can imagine it.

That's what is important. More colour means more information. More functionality for users.

And since, uh, there are infinite amount of the colour. And the variations.

If you are putting additional colour, you are making your, uh, job, uh, harder than before.

And that is the thing that you can easily mess up.

Believe it or not, using a colour is somehow a form of, uh, discipline.

And if you practice with this interface, actually it will be quite.

Quite easy for you to understand. It's called colour wheel.

And, uh, they have some, uh, let's see, monochromatic, but, you know.

Uh, and this is the basic one.

So complementary colour means that the colours at the end of the, uh, at the end of, uh.

At the end of each, uh, point in here. Like, if you turn this one, it means that there is nothing in common in this red and in this, uh, green.

Okay. So there is no shades between this colour.

So then you can use this to colour for the place that you want to emphasise the information.

Like green for the success and the red for the errors, for instance.

Like here they are using it. You. Okay.

Green for the success. And the red for the error.

Uh, cases. Okay. And that's the one way to do it.

And we are calling this colour in the palette is the complementary one.

Because. Both of them come together and they can accomplish one task.

A better than if you are using only one of them. That's why we are complementary and there are no almost the relationship.

Okay. Or the variations between this two and another one is the analogous,

which means that the colours that are close to each other like a shades of, uh, some, uh, blues in here.

Okay. So like here, I guess this one is, uh, close to the Spotify.

Okay if you. For instance, for your design you can be close to that area.

Whenever you have a warning for your users. Okay.

Or here. Okay. Here for your button colours.

Of course. Most green if you are designing redesigning a Spotify for the Netflix it can be like here.

Yeah, that place will be Netflix's college. And of course, you cannot do this by yourself.

You need to have some, uh. Some, uh, guidance for, uh, doing it.

But if you have some basic. Basic understanding how this colour wheels work, it will be quite useful for your projects.

And just go click on this one and play with the variations and try to imagine that,

okay, what kind of product that I am using belongs to this colour palette in here.

And you will be. You'll be quite amazed, actually, how this basic information that we know intuitively and we are using a daily.

But still, a lot of people are, uh, feeling in the, uh, basic stuff.

Okay. So. To some of the links.

Probably we will not be responsible for the exam, but, uh, you can learn this, uh, this concepts to articulate your design decisions.

Okay. Like in here. It's a pure, uh, pure yellow.

And each time you are tilting towards the variations of the yellow and becomes monochromatic.

Uh. I have been suspicious about the term in here.

Because, uh, monochromatic in computer vision means that greyscale looking at inputs and single colour here,

probably they refer that you are using the single colour, but you are changing a bit.

An analogous one. The colours that's close to each other.

In the colourways. Okay. And these are what will work.

Well, because, uh, you will not accept the brand identity.

Like if Netflix say that's use the screen for us.

You may be afraid to use that area to. But you cannot jump in here.

You kind of jump. Jump in here. And a compliment, of course, that we imagine.

Yeah. In here, just the colours that opposite, you know, opposite places.

And this is the, uh, dualistic version of it for each colour.

And here we also have a triadic one.

Like instead of jumping in here, you are literally coming to the colours and the selecting the colour palette and that will give you a warm, warm.

One of your design. And all of the things that we introduce in here.

It's also valid for the robotics team. Okay. Like in here we have an AI robot and it is very, very well designed.

Uh, head not to other parts, but the head of the now.

And the, uh, paper is quite well designed. And you will see it can provide a lot of colour information in here.

This one is a psycho delic colour.

I don't remember the stuff. It just turns super repeated repeatedly and with the colour variations it just give it one example to it.

And in here now has the ladies in its eyes.

That's white ladies or white colour means that everything is operating functionally.

And in here, this blue in the peppers, uh, here means that it is processing something.

Okay. You will not be responsible, okay, for that specific tasks, but I will ask.

Okay. The functionality of the colours in robotics and in the, uh, in the, in the web design or the, uh, digital domain.

Then you will give them one example, for example, red colour for the password warning, for instance, or the, uh, yellow.

Yellow colour in the eyes would say a warning or red, uh, colours in the eyes.

It will say that there is a failure in the system. So you cannot, uh, work on it.

And that's the one of the critiques actually by our students. Okay.

Like, are we learning a web design? Are we learning a, uh, graphic design?

No, you are not learning this. You are learning the principles. And that principles are applicable in different domains, especially in robotics.

If you will retrieve some random papers in the, uh, human computer interaction or human robot interaction,

you will see the principles that they are applying is almost just a medium is different.

Whatever you are learning with the Figma, you can probably adapt it to using the robots to.

Okay. And the thing that we are not, uh, teaching hardware based, uh, curriculum in here, first, it is hard for us, and it will be hard for you.

Okay?

Because, uh, writing a program for the robot is much more harder than writing a program for an on machine learning pipeline, so we cannot manage it.

But if you are interested, you are also very welcome to, uh, use the robots for your projects.

Maybe for the HCI it's already past, but the next year in the autonomous system, we can use this a bit more advanced robots for your design.

And so also in electronics we are using the. This ladies a lot.

Next semester you will practice a lot and often times you are using the lady with the reds.

It means that something going on in a wrong way for your robot or for your circuit.

So you have to be aware aware of it. And in this kind of environment, also imagine that everything is green in here or everything is yellow.

So it means that there is no functional difference, uh, component in this, uh, in this pilot in the cockpit.

But if you are changing the colour variations or using different colours, then they can easily navigate it.

So you see, the principle is the same, but the implementation domain is different.

And for you. That is the trick that I would suggest.

Please use it whenever you are designing something for your interface.

First, design in the black and white okay or the black and the variation of black like a grey air.

Okay. Done. Once you easily see.

There. Every elements that you want to emphasise is visible.

In the black and white. Then try to add one colour. Okay.

And do not go at a lot of colour. But you are familiar with this one?

Yeah, it's a stack overflow. And even with this greyscale, uh, format, it's clear that.

Where should I click? To sign up to log login to ask question, to read the question, and to get some additional information from here.

Okay. So for your project also please.

You will already build the image fidelity prototype. That will be only black and white colour.

But in the in the uh, high fidelity prototype you can add the colour with one exception.

But you cannot add too much colour like here. The difference between these two.

Is quite minimal. There is only, uh, forget about that part.

Because it's not in, uh. It's in the advertising.

But here we only have a dominant colour. Blue. And some grey text and some green text in here.

That's it. It's a very successful web page.

I will say super heavily text oriented, but still you can distinguish between the each element in here.

And the one of the good usage of the colour that again, it is a status, uh, indication.

Like if you go Google Scholar and the type interaction design and you can say that,

okay, this is the title of the article, book or PDF that they are they have.

And it is, uh, shown in blue. And here also some, uh, meta information of this, uh, this, uh, uh, uh, in this, uh, area.

So it means that whatever I am clicking in here. Should be related to the thing that I am searching okay for as I type interaction design.

And I found the one book in here which is blue. And I find some meta information about this blue book in here.

And if I click like I clicked in here before. So difference between these two.

These two, uh, components are one I already created before.

So if the colour is changing a bit or become more darker or more, uh, light.

So I can understand that I already applied one function of that colour.

Okay, so that will be one of the, uh, good exam question for you asked.

Okay. What kind of colour that you are seeing in here and what's the functionality?

Okay, so what is the functionality of that red colour in here? Go.

Okay, so currently I am at anytime. Yep. And if I click a since said this one it will be also ready.

You will expect. Okay, cool.

Yeah, that that makes sense. And what else we are seeing in here.

Let's say this one, this idea. What's the function of this?

So it means that whatever I am putting in here with the green colour should be related to either the author of the paper or the book,

or the link that I can access this. Okay. So for the exam you have to mention this one.

Others don't match the Google's logos. Whatever.

Okay. It's not important. Like, um, you can say that the red colour indicates that in that part.

The active search. Uh, timeline.

And in here that green one indicate the information about the authors and the, uh, links that's provided to, uh, to access to this information.

Then what this indicates. That bold, uh, font in here?

Go. Exactly, exactly.

My search item is indicated in here. So probably you are already doing this.

Okay. Without paying too much attention, and you somehow built in a way that or taking a granted that different colour means different functionality.

And I will expect that you will do the same thing for your design for the projects.

If you are using a one colour change, then it means that there is a different functionality and it's hard to do it.

But with each sample set you will see that it will be.

There will be, uh, that will be awesome. Uh, yeah.

You can see the different, uh, different, uh, application on it. And they use it for your, uh, projects, like in here that's, uh, uh, red.

And there is also that reddish part of it in. So I cannot see the difference.

Can you see the difference? This is a read. This is not already. Even though this is not the same read okay wants me.

It means that, uh, you are missing some information. Another one means that.

Okay. Pay attention. You will pay this amount of money when you click this.

Uh, or when you continue the shopping. Okay.

Still. Do you remember? This colour palette.

Okay, let me hear. For the red.

Let's say I will move a bit here. Maybe they use this one.

For the error. But since the functionality is the same here, I can pay attention to that area.

And they didn't choose green one. They didn't choose the one.

They choose a variation of this one. Okay. Let's say assume that this is the, uh, the price and this is the actual error that you want.

So they successfully implement this idea. Different colour indicates different variations.

And with the colour wheel they choose the colours that are close to each other.

Does this make sense? Yes. No.

Maybe. But just pay attention, okay?

And that kind of small variations makes up the, uh, differences.

And there is a one reason behind it. Especially for a company like Amazon that needs to all of your attention for shopping.

They are playing this kind of trick section. Which is a successful.

And, uh, of course, these are some unsuccessful examples.

Uh, the this one. The another. That we go reset it.

I'm sure. Let me save the image.

Okay. You see, it's quite colourful now.

Well, it will turn out in a more readable, uh, uh, version of it.

And you see, with only a single colour that that's a designer use it.

That can give you a lot of information. And.

Now lastly, I need to mention this book under. You can borrow from me if you are interested.

This morning. It's very quiet. And that's not. If this one goes along.

If you're interested. 30% of design this. Uh, you can't have all of this from me.

It's not the common text. That's you. That's on the left hand side.

But this is what we. Well written and there are some quite nice information about the design, colour and where was the.

Uh uh. One thing that I remember not from this colour white.

Purple is the most expensive colour during the Roman times.

Or why purple? Only a wear by the emperors.

Uh, it's not a flower, but it's a snails. Okay.

It is very, very hard to obtain some gram of that purple dye, which I don't know, thousands of something that has to be killed.

So it's not super common. So that's why, uh.

Uh, on the emperors are able to use the in their toga, and the Senate members can use the purple,

but on the stripes of the purple, not the full purple, uh, colours.

So there are some nice historical about it versus just take it for the Renaissance, uh, type of, uh, uh, paintings.

Why blue colour is less used.

In the Renaissance type of painting. Just think about.

And the one goes through all the information. Check the author. And read the story of the, uh.

Who was the director? Of Arthur.

James coming up about why he waited a lot to shut the elevator.

It's really. It's the colour. So please, uh, attend the next part of this.

Uh, we can practical. We will introduce the plug ins, and it will be super beneficial for your group projects if you are learning plug ins.

And other than this. See you on Thursday. So we.

Yeah. Like, you know, like.

