[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Okay, let's start for today's lecture. Now, next week is the exam again for you.

And how many exam you have on average. Only one.

Okay, but it isn't a test base exam or online or your writing.

Which courses? Uh, paper exam for algebra.

Okay. And for the other courses, you don't have any exam. Interesting.

Okay. So I was trying to postpone something. But, uh, in this case, I will not postpone.

For the, uh, second, uh, assignments. Okay.

And what we did the previous day. We introduced the colour and the components of the visual design.

So that was said the most dangerous part of the course.

So use it responsibly and practice the principles that we teach.

And do not try to inject your personal preferences unless your, uh,

user base suggests some changes or some, uh, uh, functionalities for your, uh, application.

And, uh, we already agreed your first assignments, and, uh, they are mostly, uh, good.

And we graded generously. So do not assume that in the following assignments we will be in the same mode to grade your assignment.

Why? Because in the following grade, following assignments, you have to do somehow fact checking.

Okay. Based on your users, everything has to be based on your users.

And for this need finding take, please.

Uh, super, uh. Be super careful. Whatever you are doing with this assignment will follow up until the end.

Okay. Like if you will do some changes and I will ask why.

Then you have to show me one uh, user, maybe suggest this, uh, this, uh, change in your design.

So you have to always accommodate with your users. Okay.

And if you, uh. If you missed exactly you did for this assignment.

Some of you confuse, uh, the stakeholders and the users.

Okay. Like a primary stakeholder can be users, but the other stakeholders may not be all users.

Okay. Be aware that and do not be confused for the exam and your user specifications are too generic like there are students for this.

You are saying that this. Yeah, the ideal set of group for this application is the uh is students.

But you have to give some demographic information and some age interval.

Okay. Students between 8 to 30 years old.

Medium. And later you will discover from the neat finding.

But it is better to have some, uh, ideas.

Okay. What, uh, you are creating for this application?

For whom? And for what purposes? A lot of demographic information are missing.

Like what is the salary? What is a data background? What is data language?

What state? Uh uh uh uh, cultural uh background.

You didn't lose too much point for this one, but bear in mind that you need to use it further.

And it's finding. Okay.

Interval is missing and that is the most it will be important for you actually to include for your persona.

Like if you remember or personal template for some information and your need.

Findings should ask for all of the information that you need to build for your persona.

And for the formatting issues. I mean, this is a bit, uh, challenging, naturally.

I know all we need to. Most consider the content of the reports,

but in this class you are learning some visual design and please implement it as much as possible that you need.

Like. Do not use two colours in the document.

Title is the black and the content is the blue. Or do not use multiple fonts in the in the uh report.

Like title is, uh, New Times Roman. Uh, subtitles are Verdana and the body is different typefaces don't use this one.

And we will, uh, reopen this same assignment.

Maybe this week because I learned that you need to, uh.

You don't have any, uh. Uh, you don't have too much exam, and you can submit your, uh.

You can submit your. First assignment is a receipt.

If you are not happy with your grades. Okay. And what I can suggest to you, if you already get six or above, you don't need to submit for the receipt.

Okay. And, uh, I was planning to do it after the midterm.

But I will say, let's say this week. Okay.

And one, uh, important reminder actually, if you have any non contributing group members, do not remove them from your report.

Do not remove them from the canvas in the group. Okay.

So put them and keep them until the end.

But in the contribution statement to the section mentioned that okay this group members didn't produce uh did not contribute this uh report.

Okay. And that's important for me because I need to document that they didn't contribute to your report.

Um, for the students. Converse does not allow me to grade individually as students.

Okay. That's why all of you get the same grade. And for this, students who are not contributing their grades will be zero.

And, uh, when we submit this grades to the outsiders.

There will be zero. Okay, I need to mention this one.

This, uh, repeatedly, because later they will, uh, come up to me and say that,

okay, here, our group get the grade and the my grades are on the canvas.

But no, you cannot get the grades for the assignment that you did not contribute.

Okay. That's the. Yeah, that's the, uh, the news, uh, and administrative stuff for the next, uh, uh, for the this weeks practical session.

You need to bring, uh, we need to do a low fidelity prototypes.

And please bring the some blank, uh, A4 papers and post-its.

And if you don't have or you forget, you can just borrow some from, uh, printers.

And bring some scissors eraser pen markers, but do not bring a utility knife.

Okay. And. Prepare your task list.

Like in the first assignment, you have already mentioned some, uh, some ideal user interaction or user flow.

User has to click the button and there will be an animation page, and then it will be login page, profile page, product page.

And this kind of uh, uh, this kind of.

Sections that your user needs to interact. And before coming to your lecture so it we practical.

Please watch if you've.

If you've, uh, find a few videos either in YouTube or in the previous, uh, lectures, and we need to actually do this kind of stuff together.

Together means that you will do by yourself.

And I will check, and I will try to interact and be your user and to to be your user and give the feedback.

Okay. And do not underestimate. We are not playing here, uh, as a kindergarden and you are not doing the some, uh,

artistic stuff or developing some, uh, eye and hand coordination we are doing for creating the product.

And, uh, that will be an important step between, um, for your user.

And if you are not doing or getting familiarity with these protocols, then.

When you submit your, uh. Uh, when you submit your, uh, low fidelity product, definitely your grade will be a bit lower.

Okay. And to get some inspiration, you can go and.

Visit this link. It is with Google's.

Tutorial about creating the sketches or low fidelity prototypes.

Go and just check it. Okay. What they are doing a colour. At this point, you may decide to transfer your sketches to digital tools,

but the more you can flesh out your ideas on paper, the faster you move out of here.

Okay, just go and learn a. Uh, just watch it and you will get some, uh, some inspiration from there.

And. This one is important. Please print this.

Uh. This template. Okay.

There are four different types of applications for this browser.

It means that desktop application or tablet browser browser application.

And this one is for uh, I guess also browser.

This one is for mobile. Mobile devices and with the infinite scroll.

Okay. Back to. If you are creating an art gallery for Instagram, then you can use this template.

Or if you are just using the mobile phone, of course,

that mobile phone will not be the one that you may use in the Figma, but it will give you an idea.

Okay, and if you click here, it's a free to download.

So you can. Burgess. Okay.

Because. Whatever. Oh. Nothing here.

Yeah. Okay. Just print a few of them.

Then you will draw some, uh, buttons, some, uh, texts, um, text boxes in there, this one.

And we will, uh, cut with the scissors and you will interact with your, uh, uh, low fidelity print.

Okay, a lot of news. Okay.

Okay. We are in the 8 or 7 week of the, uh, lectures.

Um, next week we don't have a lecture. We don't have a practicals because the return week and the following the next week.

We will have a lecture, but I will, uh, submit a video.

Okay, so we will not have an in-person lecture in year. And we don't have an practical session.

Okay. But I will send an email about inform you, inform all of you about the upcoming lectures and the practical sessions.

Okay, now we introduce a lot of news administrative stuff.

Do you have any questions regarding your, uh, assignments? Okay.

Just one thing that I remember for the hardware projects, if your groups are doing the hardware projects,

you have to follow the cycle that we are introducing and you have to deliver the all assignments to.

Okay. And if you have a question and something is not clear based on what you are doing as a hardware project,

please reach out to me as early as possible and do not send a last minute email that I may not reply.

Okay. Finally, today's lecture and today will be our last lecture about the UCD cycle.

So up to now we introduced the need finding and you will have an assignment for it.

And this week we will uh the next assignment will be to design alternatives.

So you will build a persona, you will do some storyboarding.

And finally in the this project session, we will also start to how to prototype your, your, uh, prototype, uh, the projects and for the evaluation.

Ideally, we have to reach to your users and they have to have a they have to evaluate your prototypes.

But here we don't have that luxury. So we'll skip that step.

But in the presentation you have to show that. How did you apply the heuristics that we introduced in the, uh, previous two lectures?

Come. Yes. And today we are going to introduce the evaluation.

And it is a bit rich topic. There should be a whole course for this one.

But, uh, now we will just give some concepts that you can, uh,

have any sound knowledge of what you need to do if you are working in an actual, uh, on an actual HCI, uh, product.

But we will just introduce and, uh, it will be okay for you to, uh, within the context of this course.

One. Uh, quotes before starting is, uh, Nobel laureate, uh, uh, Ronald Corson and what it says.

If you tortured enough your data, then it will confess anything that is true.

And that is very true. Okay. Looking there is the one saying that, uh, numbers don't lie, but liars use the numbers.

Okay? And we will see some, uh, some, uh, applications in here.

And it is very important. As important as the design that we are, we introduce, you know, like an if you remember,

this was a one interface calls to patient to another interface with the car cause the owner died.

And the same thing can be applied to in here. So to start, let's see what is wrong with this graph.

Okay, just read this paragraph and check this one and tell me what's wrong.

And you can read this. Uh, yeah, you can read this, uh, graph.

Just remember this one. Okay. And this quote. First.

What is visually wrong in here? So it says that basically.

The vertical axis is the average age. Of a person.

And the horizontal. So, yeah, the horizontal, uh, axis is the music channel.

Okay. So. Yeah.

There is. Exactly there are there.

There's no connection between the, let's say, blues and let's say gospel and the RBA.

You don't need to connect because these are the categorical data. So in here they tortured enough the data okay.

Or they try to visually hijack or perception and say that if you want to live long enough, do not go in the Hip-Hop or the rap music.

But if you go to the blues and jazz band, you may live long enough.

So. What is the designer of this is trying to do?

Is she lying? I know that she's, uh. She is.

She's like a female person. Is she lying or she just want to be nice for the jazz?

Maybe her favourite music genre is the jazz and she wants to.

Given, uh, some, some, uh advantage to, to just players.

To read the full story, just go and check this website and we are calling [INAUDIBLE].

It's actually [INAUDIBLE]. There is a one. Uh, course.

With to how to find order to take this kind of missing information.

And they call it a [INAUDIBLE]. Okay.

So after this lecture actually after this courses you will also develop some sense of this.

Like you will see in the news, in the paper or in there some reports that you are reading it and you can easily say that,

okay, whatever the [INAUDIBLE] it is, it's a [INAUDIBLE]. Okay.

Have you ever processed data or collected data from the humans?

No. Yes. Yes. What was the data?

Yeah, I didn't expect this, but in the previous lectures.

Yes. Let me search by this. Okay. Okay. And here is the sum up of the approach that we are taking it.

But not always. We are following the same approach. Like if you have an already existing dataset, you don't need to go find any participants.

Yeah, but for your projects you will probably develop uh, some approach super similar to this one and it will be quite easy.

First you need to define a task. For instance, what is your task in your project?

Everybody submit, uh. First assignment. What is it? Test. That's.

You are performing in the project. Sending an email.

Finding a new book. Okay. And what is a performance measures.

How do you measure the performance of the your users. Number of the click.

Time to complete. Okay. This kind of, uh uh, uh, measures that you can use it.

And for developing an experiment. This is the hardest part. Okay, and psychology students are expert in this domain.

If you have a friend in psychology, you can go and ask. And they will give unnecessary details about the how to designing the experiment,

because experiment needs to be controlled and they know that how to control the variables.

But in your case you don't need to do it. Okay.

Then we need to recruit the participants, and the participants can be as close as possible that your ideal users.

Or the initial users that you defined in the, in the, in the uh, first, uh, first assignment,

then doing the experiments, analyse the data and summarise the data and use the data.

To understand, uh, what it needs to be designed, or if data is not helpful for the,

uh, task, then you can collect more data or thresh down the whole process.

And of course it is super important because first, we are not our own users.

And our product has to be used by the others.

So that's why we are looking for some other people to interact with or uh, interact with or uh, products.

And it will help you. To fix the problems at the beginning, rather than investing too much money, time, and the, uh, efforts for the product.

And if you fail in this part, actually.

If you are shortcutting this one to go to market and failing in this part, then eventually your product will die.

And we show countless examples in the some famous companies that they are building a product.

Like a jibo that the interactive robots. Okay. MIT professor and MIT resources almost uh, and this funding.

But still that kind of products are failing in the market. And one.

We can do it first before the start. Before starting. Okay.

Like the one that you are doing with the net finding.

And second, you can do after every prototype, like your low fidelity prototype has to be evaluated.

Your medium and your high fidelity prototype has to be evaluated individually.

Okay. And once, let's say after the revolution, you are happy, your users are happy and you are releasing to the market.

Still, you are not done. Maybe you will quit and the second version of your applications.

But still, you need to do some evolution in that too. Okay.

And how we can do it. One is the in the wild. You are just going to see your users in the actual habitat.

Okay. Like you are creating a new, uh, smart, um, uh, watch and that smart watch are used by the athletes.

Then you are going to gym and observing them and their behaviour, how they are using your products.

Love studies are controlled, which means that every variable that you are addressing or the researching.

Will be controlled.

Like you can manipulate it, or you can change it and you can switch it for this desk and the remote studies will be web based, uh, stuff.

Instead of inviting people from the lab to the lab, you are just sharing a link and they are feeling guilt.

Uh, question is that you are doing, uh. Uh, you are doing now most of you are doing now, and that is belong to your remote studies.

And the settings are also important. Like a control setting.

Everything is controlled, which is lab environment, natural setting.

People are using the smartwatches in the gym and the expert reviews that one is like, and you are creating a new boring application.

You playing, for instance, for the pilots. You don't need to go and ask, you know, people in the gym, okay.

What would be the best feature that it is missing for the current? The mission.

Then you are going to someone like retired pilots and asking them their their opinion about your product or your idea.

And it will inform you a lot of, uh, stuff like, uh, their goal, their behaviour, their needs,

their reaction to technology and the, their type of, uh, modality that they are employing to interact with the technology.

Like if you are, uh, creating a new operating system for the blind people, okay, they have to be voice activated.

You don't need to have any fancy graphics. They have to be a voice activated.

And if you've, uh, uh, remem, uh, reminder. Again, you are not your own users.

That's why you cannot inject any kind of your personal preferences into your design.

For your project. Unless that product is super radical.

Okay. It has no, uh, similar example in the market.

And you are bringing it, bring it, bringing it. Then you can, uh, do some personal preferences.

Okay. Like I am creating a new application for professors as a to do list.

Since my background is similar with, uh, my user base, then I may, uh, do it.

But this super simplified example.

If you think about the extreme cases, let's say you are getting an application for the nuclear reactors, for instance.

Okay. So this kind of stuff will be hard, and you may need to only use the people that's working in a simple single group.

Sometimes you can include yourself, but for your projects we will not accept anything comes from you directly.

Okay. Again, we can do a lot of, uh, type of the, uh, evaluation that can be predictive model.

Do you have any idea about this one? No.

And the. Where was the last time that you used the word model?

In your machine learning course in. Like you have a data and you are training a one machine learning model.

And once you are happy with the test accuracy results or the test results, then you are frozen your model.

And we will have the similar kind of predictive models in here.

But it will be slightly different than machine learning models. Okay.

And we can do field experiments. We can do, uh. Uh, in wild experiments, we can do in lab experiments.

There are a lot of variations of it. Here we will introduce a few of them.

And one thing that we need to actually be super careful about it is the privacy of our users.

Like most of you, probably didn't. Uh. Ask your users, okay, you're from your users.

Okay. We will use your data based on this, uh, projects.

And the data will be saved for five years. And all of them are regulated by GDPR.

Okay. Which means that if one of your users say that.

Okay, I am not happy with, uh, with, uh, uh, current state of the product, could you please remove me from the, uh, user base?

Then based on the GPS GDPR, you have to do it. Okay.

And if you are a Tilbrook University student, you cannot save the data in the Dropbox or in the some servers that exist in the California.

Okay. Why? Because. EU wants us to use the regulated systems and we should be super careful about it.

And another thing that's at the beginning of the experiment.

Usually we are inviting the people in the lab or the experimental environment, and they have to consent to some the forms.

Okay. Like, uh, in that forum, there are some, uh uh uh uh sentences.

Call that you can drop the experiments without giving any reason.

And whenever you want. Okay. And you should give this kind of, uh, this kind of information to your users.

Otherwise. They might not be happy.

They want to be nice and they want to complete your, uh, assignment anyway.

Then instead of having an actual data, you will have, again, a bit biased data in your, uh, in your, uh, in your results.

For the ethics. We will have a few cases, but in generally we are not trained in that domain.

But I guess you have had some research workshop experiments.

Anyway, for that course's problem, you will see some ethical implications of the ethical aspect of the, uh, research.

And another thing, that anonymous data that is very important silicon for a given.

As for you shouldn't retrieve the your, uh, user's ID, okay.

That's why in the guidelines we said that okay, instead of giving the names, give the ID to your users.

Okay. These are a lot of things to unpack. You know, we will see one by one.

Some examples. So for the for this case, it is a useful lecture to understand it.

But can you already see some evaluation? Uh, heuristics.

Yeah. Like a Nielsen evolution. That heater sticks. Okay. Like a, uh, how memory of the users.

If everything is failed, standardise it. And this kind of, uh, uh, he needs to get, uh, metrics.

He used the principles that we used. And now this is from actual experiments.

In here you have 16 evaluators. Yeah, sorry.

And 19 evaluators. You can see that each.

Uh, each row in here corresponds to, um.

Uh, participants. Okay. And starting from zero 1 to 19 in here.

And usability problems can be. The readability of the text or giving the shortcut to your users.

Okay, here they are not defined, but you can assume that this kind of changes can be applied for your, uh, interfaces.

So it means that. Over the time when they finished their experiments, some users couldn't find that usability problems.

But here, this is all just fine. Uh, three of.

But here this use of find. 0357.

Okay. And now I am asking to you.

What will be the ideal state of this matrix? This is the one of the exam questions.

Okay, so you have a bunch of users and some usability problems and discovered usability usability problems in there.

And now I am asking what would be the ideal state for your product?

When we follow this approach for assessing the usability.

Okay. Any idea? All black.

First. What does it mean? All black. Come on.

This is super easy. What's all black?

And what's all the, uh, all, uh, white. All black.

Everyone. Okay. Any other ideas?

I was tested every day. Discover everyday usability problems. Okay.

What is all white? Come on.

It's possible. What's all the in here?

Exam question. Go. They couldn't discover any usability problems.

Okay, now I am asking you a question. Which one is ideal?

All black or all white. Come on.

50% chance. Or maybe there is no wrong answer.

Come on. Imagine that you are an example. You are in the exam and I am asking this question.

In one case, we have an. Uh, one, uh, product and all of the problems are discovered.

In either case, we have a product that's. No.

Usability problems as reported. So which one is preferred? I think for a business model, it's better for.

But for. You to solve those problems.

So. Okay.

Yeah, that's the correct answer that we can accept here.

The. Answer is, uh, actually it depends.

Okay. So both of them can be correct, but you have to give the case.

Okay. Like, if you say that we create a perfect product, that there is no usability problems.

That's why this 19 people couldn't have figured out any problems in the interfaces.

I will accept. Or you will say that. There isn't a lot of stuff going on, and all usability problems were discovered by the all.

Uh uh, participants. I will also accept.

Come. And here are some, uh, demos, actually, how they are conducting in the professional professional settings when facilitating usability testing,

introducing the participant to the session is extremely important.

It can help to reassure participants, make them feel comfortable, and set their expectations for the session.

We'll show you how we typically welcome test participants. I'll play the facilitator for this demo and I'll be the participant.

So if you guys take the over here and I'll say, okay. So, Kate, thanks for coming in today.

So before we get started, I just want to give you a little bit of information about the session and what to expect.

So as you know, the session will last for 60 minutes. Your participation is voluntary.

So if you do want to take a break or stop the session, that's absolutely fine.

Feel free to let me know how that's important. Okay. Um, also, if you have questions about how the session will proceed, feel free to ask me.

Any part of this study type is to look at, um, the design of this particular website that you're going to be using.

Um, but when they asked me to do some activities on this website and to get your feedback.

So we're really doing this to learn how we can make this design easier for people to use.

Okay. As the task is defined and the goals are defined.

Yeah. Just go and watch this video and you will understand how these are, uh, uh, conducted in the professional setting and in the companies.

Usually this kind of unit can be separate.

Okay. The product designers or the designer developers can be separate.

And, uh, this evaluators, um, for this evaluators, you can also outsource it.

Okay, like you are a new Spotify and you want to, uh, try a new interface, maybe Spotify with the virtual reality.

I don't know what's the usage of. Then you can say that.

Okay. For the given, uh, units that exist in the company, nobody can conduct this study.

Let's go to that and ungroup this one. And they will conduct for us and they will report you back, okay.

Their findings, their suggestions. Then you will apply and iterate over your product.

So the thing that you are doing basically a super mini version of this cycle, but not perfectly.

We are not following everything. So from that video, you already you get the idea.

Like at first we need to set the goal, then the research question okay.

What we are interested. But you don't need to reveal too much research.

Question for your, uh, for your subject.

Okay. Just the goal of the study. And the research question can be a bit, uh, vague in that.

In that sense, then you should the script means that. Okay, starting from the.

Uh, beginning to the end. What kind of, uh, rules that you have to follow?

Okay. Maybe you will, uh, put a mouse in the left side.

For the right handed persons. And you will put the mouse on the right side for the left handed persons.

Okay. And you have to be consistent in that sense. Um, for the test, you can, uh, do some piloting.

I'll start with the initial, uh, users.

Okay. Or users can be. Maybe your friends also.

You are just, uh, inviting him, and he's doing the supervised realistic at the same thing that you will do with your participants.

And at. Imagine that you finish everything with your users.

You will analyse the results, analysing stats, apply some statistics and report them uh to the development team or design team.

The one that you are doing for the need finding for instance. Then implement the results.

Okay, some results can not be implemented.

Okay, maybe you will not have the budgets for your product to address the requirement by the some of the extreme users.

In this case you can drop it. And instead of going for the all edges like an um.

Two extremes. Instead of addressing these two extremes, you can only address the uh uh, average uh or ideal user types.

And the setup is quite, quite hard to achieve actually, because, uh, this, uh, facilitator.

Has to follow the same steps in each time.

It's a super boring task. Okay, I never did it, but I see people are doing it and it's a super, super boring task.

So it is better to have a multiple facilitator in that sense.

And again. The role of the facilitator in here is not guiding the users to accomplish the task.

Okay. Maybe the user will end up with an error.

Okay. For some forms or for some interactions, and the facilitator may not be able to help them.

Okay. So why we need to discover some problems in our system here.

And that's why Forstater may not have a lot of freedom to help the participants.

And, uh. That's okay. In here. Okay.

Okay. And for this experiment, we have a two hour approach.

One is that within another one is between the subject design due.

Come across these keywords before. Yes.

No. Which course? For some.

Statistics. Okay. Basically, it's quite a simple.

But you need a lot of experiment experience actually to decide which one is useful for your, uh, for your project.

Again in your projects. We don't need to. You don't need to conduct this kind of experiments.

But it's better to know how it is. Uh. Uh, it is done in the professional setting.

So first one is the, uh, within subject design.

In here, you have a same subject that tries different conditions of your experiment.

Okay. Like, in one condition. Maybe you have a GoPro.

In another condition. You have an Sony. Okay.

Uh, should posting pointed to the camera.

And in the last condition you have. Your, uh, your phone.

Okay. Or, uh, iPhone. Uh, 17 minutes. And in this case, one person tries this all three conditions.

And in the between subject design, it is a bit opposite. You are assigning different.

Uh, devices like a GoPro, your phone. And so any point and shoot to different participants and.

Different participants in a randomised order.

Okay, so if you are randomising a lot of stuff, it is good for your experiment and to make it a bit concrete.

Okay. Let's say just stop in here for around five minutes and decide which one is good for your project.

Okay. Assume that you created a high fidelity prototype for your project.

And now we have to evaluate to find some problems. These old problems for your for your, uh, for your exam.

Which one you would prefer? Yes.

It depends on the amount. Okay.

That. Uh, we did something. I mean, the main subject is that it will be easier because all of the users have the same needs and experience.

Mhm. But if you're, uh.

Your users are very different. And difference, uh, regarding, uh, regarding their experience.

Okay. But for your own project, like a for navigation project in navigation project.

We, uh. Uh, mostly. The odds are, uh, users.

So, uh, they're quite, uh, uh, similar in their, in their, uh, uh uh, in the way that we are familiar with technology you navigate on campus.

So I think they would use, uh, on.

Uh, to pass, uh, different functions. And what will be a disadvantage of this, uh, between solving design.

Uh, I'll probably, uh, that, uh, uh, we, uh.

One needs, uh, people to evaluate which, uh, uh, uh, techniques is better, uh, because we, uh, we did something designed that we can ask that person.

Like, which one did you like better?

I think different people are testing different versions of our application, and we cannot just ask them because the quality of testing.

Okay, so we cannot evaluate the performance of one part, but at the same time, uh, if you are a smaller, uh, variance person.

Okay. Uh, my. Okay.

Yeah, all of them are, uh, correct.

But for the, uh, regarding the number of the participants in which I think that you have to access a large number of the participants.

I think. You have to. Okay.

Okay. Then we will come up to this point, okay. For the which part and anyone else wants to try.

Especially for the hardware projects. No.

So nobody wants to, uh, conduct the experiment. I mean, it's a terrible, uh, it's it's very, very time consuming, like an I,

I am not a fan of collecting data from the humans, but somebody has to do it.

For your project. Which one you will prefer? I will not ask why.

Okay. Okay. Who will prefer the within subject design for their projects?

Within subject. No one.

Okay. That's interesting. Okay.

Who will say that I will conduct between subjects and. One two.

The rest you will come up with an. New paradigm for the for the psychology.

Okay, cool. Then in the exam also, you can achieve, uh, your new paradigm for the psychology.

Cool. Now, let's give him a 15 minute break and be here in 45.

And if you have a question to your address, your, uh, projects, uh, you can come here and, uh, we can discuss.

So how many of you have earned a machine learning assignment?

All of you guys have. Um. Uh, are you suffering, uh, for the time stuff?

Yes. Very much. Okay. Uh, then that's me.

Check my schedule. Uh, what is your assignment?

Submission for machine learning. Is 15.

But we also have like practical assignments, which is due on Sunday.

Yes, Sunday like two assignments. Okay.

Can you give me some, uh, some, uh, dates for your, uh, assignment?

For the assignment? We need to submit in the nine.

But, uh, should I postpone? To what?

I'm asking you all. I can give you some dates. 60, maybe a week, but.

16. Then you have an another assignment that. Oh, another 7 to 22.

But another assignment is easy. Like an all you need to do is an alternative.

Some other stuff. Okay, let's decide it now.

Uh, the 16. Yeah. If the 16 them in, uh, for 26 days, you will have another assignment.

Would it be okay for all of you? Because I already see one group.

Submitted assignments. Okay. The first assignment is.

23. Let me check. Uh, let me check.

Uh, 27. Okay. Then it will be okay.

Then I will, uh, extend to 16. You. Thanks. 16.

Okay, but they should know I was in. 16.

Yeah. Yeah. Same. And I'm sure it's not, sir.

It's not who you are. Uh.

And they're not. I won't, I won't. I need to make it otherwise.

Okay. Can one of you take it from the canvas? Because.

Yep. Perfect. And, uh. But you need to submit.

Oh, no. In my case, it's nothing. Okay.

1616. Okay. Then you need to submit a very nice report in, uh, this.

Let's start. Uh, what is the, uh, scope of a machine learning submission?

Are you. Working in a group or individual group.

What does the task? Interview. Okay.

What's the task? Um. Very big. We have to train something.

Okay. If it works, uh, there is, uh, some problem.

It shouldn't work. Okay. It should have been, at least by the second semester for, uh, next year.

First semester. Okay. Uh, the very important part.

Okay, okay. So we're basically having to figure that out as we do this.

Okay. But are you accessing to, uh, some clusters and submitting to the code and data in there?

It's running and it's sending to you a message or you are running on your computer.

Okay. Okay. Then, uh. Okay. I trust that it is hard enough to postpone.

That's fine. Okay.

Yeah. Let's go and see this. Uh, within and between.

Subject design. So for the between subject design, you have an for set of let's say uh users.

Okay. All of them are different. And you have a two conditions. One is them.

This one I don't remember the, uh, name of this, uh, kit, but this one is Rossiya.

So if for. Different people are using, uh, are subject to the different conditions than it becomes between subjects.

Okay. And just be careful about this.

Uh, slide. Okay. It will be on the exempt, too.

Conceptually, it will be on the exam too. And try to create a relationship between the these two concepts with your group projects.

And within subject design. All of the users are subject to the same condition.

Okay. Let's make it more concrete versus here.

This is a between subject design. Ideally, we should put our, uh, name of our, uh.

Name of our participants. We have to put an ID in here.

But now let's say we have two conditions. One is using the seven millimetre spikes for the BCI.

BCI is brain computer interface to do some task.

Another one is the talking more. And here we are.

Let's say we have a one task booking in a hotel.

Or the playing the game with the robot. Then we are recording a time in here and that will be our performance evaluation metric.

And since the. In two conditions.

The names are different. Okay.

Ideally, we shouldn't use the name. It should be an ID or some numbers that becomes between subjects.

Okay. Because we are assigning different person to the different conditions for the, uh, within subject design.

Let's design this, uh, example. We have a type of the typewriter.

One is the mechanical one. Another one is the electric one. Okay.

So if I am using first the corona, uh, second version of the corona, it becomes.

It becomes what? I am only the subject and I have it to this a condition of this condition.

First, I am using this form a second time using this form.

So are you conducting within or between subjects? What?

We didn't because it's within the single cell. And here the performance evaluation metrics is the typing speed.

And that is the important part for the subject IDs or subject names should be same in this two, uh, columns.

Why? Because the same subject. Let's say Bob Tyson, that is between the mythical one and the electric one.

And George, that is, with the mechanical one and the electrical.

Okay. So you can give this kind of reasoning actually for your project.

Whether you have to conduct within or between subject is.

And the important difference between the, uh, between the within and between subject designs are, uh.

Uh, quite is actually, if you understand this, to, uh, the figures and you can retrieve this information quite easily.

First. Within subject design requires less amount of participants to.

Why does the same participants be subject to the different conditions?

And it is less costly. Because you don't need to hire more people.

Okay. And the user variation is quite minimal.

Because a single person tries different conditions.

And in this case, if you get some statistically significant results, probably you are getting the true understanding of what you are measuring.

Okay. But there is one problem in here.

Here. What will be the disadvantage of, uh, using this, uh, within subject design?

Because we have a learning effect. You.

Your reply. That can be oneself if you have a multiple conditions.

Especially for the new, uh, new, uh, technologies like the VR.

That's a they may have us on the, uh, uh, business, and they will drop out.

And for the. For the, uh.

What's disadvantage of this approach is the learning effect.

Why we call lowering effect. Because in the websites one let's say this is Amazon.

This is bull.com here to uh different interfaces.

Whatever you are learning in the first website, what kind of interaction you are uh,

doing, what kind of, uh, buttons that you have to click to purchase the, uh, product.

And you are learning within subject. So in the first condition than this learning effect you can carry to the next condition.

Two if they are close enough. Okay, but if they are super different.

Like one is the amazon.com. Another one is they using the I don't know the robotic interface voices.

So in this case you can say that you have an a learning effect English. But that is the one of the drawback of the within subject exam.

And to eliminate this we develop the between subject design okay.

Why. Because each condition is test used by uh different subjects and uh compared to the time limit.

Actually this one is shorter. Because you are assigning a single person to a single condition and they can, uh.

Uh, accomplish the task. Uh, complexity to this condition is quite, uh, in the less amount of time.

And it is quite easy to perform it. Okay.

Why you are providing the device or the interface is inviting the user.

And you can do it in the parallel session. Okay. In one room there will be one condition with different participants.

In another room there will be one condition with the different participants.

Okay. So timing is actually important.

And using the, uh between subject design instead of within subject design, you will accomplish the task or the collected data in short amount of time.

And the procedure is quite easy. I will skip this one, but give the information related to robot one.

Let's say you want to address engagements between the human and robot.

While accomplishing a one task and task can be, let's say, and, uh, Tower of Hanoi, you know, the scheme tower of Hanoi.

And first. In the condition one.

You are, uh, welcoming the participant, interested in your experiment and give the consent, uh, for.

And in the consent form and reading. You cannot impose time, okay?

You cannot say that here is the consent form. Finish in five minutes, then we will start the experiment.

Okay. You are just giving them and they are taking their time and they are starting the experiment.

Then some demographic information. Okay. What's their, uh, cultural background?

What's their salary? Education level language. It's kind of information.

Then your experiment starts. Let's say I am doing, uh, between subject design.

So each condition will be evaluated by the, uh, by the different, uh, people.

Done in this case. One, uh, persons interact with the humanoid robot.

They are sitting next to each other and they are the Tower of Hanoi.

Another participant is interacting with the mobile robot.

Because mobile robot cannot achieve the manipulation and cannot put one item on top of the other.

And the last one is the. Instead of using the hardware, humanoid, robot or real human effort.

What I'm using to make this one. Okay.

Done. Once my experiment's finished, I am giving the question only to my, uh, participants.

And that question will be related to the experiment. How was the robot's uh, uh, appearance?

Or, uh, how was the robot skill? Does it, uh, make you uncomfortable versus this kind of questions?

And at the end, when they finish their questions. Yes. Then you are thanking the participants and usually giving either money.

I guess €12 per hour.

We did in Germany at €12 per hour, or we are, uh, uh, acquiring participants from the universities.

Instead of paying them, they can get the credits. So we mean for the to, uh, to affect.

And here is the one experiment that we did in the in Germany.

It was very interesting experiment actually. We find a, uh, nice, uh, uh, results.

And I can give you a warm. One.

Uh. Tips and tricks. Who wants to be rich?

All of you. Perfect. Okay. Who wants to be rich while employing or playing with robots or designing an interface for the robots?

Oh. Nobody. Okay.

You don't need to eat, robot, but you can do with computers. That is just an experiment.

Actually, we did in the journal. It's called a robot code representation.

When you sit next to your group member or next to a human, and if you are trying to name some items.

Within the same category. Okay. You say first me, then you.

Okay, we will do the now. Okay.

Who are good at games? But it seems.

Okay. You okay? Both of you. Okay. We will do it together.

You will love it. Now.

Uh. Whenever I raise my hands.

You will see long game character. It doesn't matter. That.

You can speak. Go on.

You know you don't. Okay. Movie characters. Okay.

Do you know what the. Put this. I'm almost.

The. Okay.

Get. Okay, but if I switch the category to the game, you also need to.

Yeah. Games like this one. Okay. Or I switch to the cars. You also need to.

Discuss or what else you have with us.

Okay. The fruits. Whatever. Just a category. Okay? Okay, I am starting.

Okay. Don't! Kalona. Don't. Kalona. From Bedford.

Just random. Uh. Uh, yeah. Okay.

Uh, Hannibal Lecter. Okay.

Luke Skywalker. Hey, it's the same character you eliminated anyway.

Uh, for, uh, for the pizza. We'll just get them.

Okay. Not about. Okay.

That's, you know, the idea. That's if you are going for Italian roots for, uh, the idea that in here, if I,

we are playing the game and we are naming the objects within the same category, okay, even though he is not playing, uh.

On the time that I am replying, he is representing my, let's say, mental state or my, uh, speech patterns in his mind or in his system.

So together. We are being faster within the same category like the movies.

But when we switch, when I switch to different categories, we are becoming slower.

Okay. And this is the. Uh, this is the fact from the psychology studies.

Then this clever, uh, professors, my office think that's.

What if we switch with the. One of the humans with robot.

Okay. Then we conducted a simple experiment and we get that with humans you are becoming slower and slower.

But with the robot, you've become faster and faster. Okay.

So if your robot stays in the same category, you are also saying the, uh, similar speed and that trend is consistent with all participants.

So it means that. You can use this robot.

Okay. Or any kind of robots in the setting for generating speech patterns for the people who have.

Difficulties to learn or the generating speech methods. And nobody did this product.

As far as I know. If you want to do it.

Ping me and we will do it together. With one condition.

I need to get 20% of your company. I am serious.

If you are doing this, um, we would both be, uh, a billionaire.

A billionaire? But we won't be rich. Considering that the current salary that I am getting.

And I am open to offer. Uh, offers from your offers.

And that doesn't need to be a humanoid robot. You can throw in another robot.

Maybe we will try or design our own robot and use in this setting.

Okay. Cool. This is the trivia.

And this will be. Together we are rich because we need money for our robots.

And the idea in here. Just if you read the papers that are following this experimental paradigms and you will find this kind of statements.

So overall, we find 36 native German speakers and some, uh, gender information, and they are uh, uh h and the sample size is the, uh,

coming from analysis means that how many participants that you need to get for this experiment to get the statistically significant results.

Okay. So ideally it's a super, super, uh, hard procedure and time consuming.

But luckily, at the time, I had an, uh, super talented psychologist and neuroscientist, uh, together.

And we did this, uh, nice experiment. Okay.

And another one. Another way for the collecting data from your user is the web analytics.

It's. Probably almost all of the, uh, web, uh, applications like Amazon's like, I don't know, uh,

Netflix are collecting the data while you are using the, uh, while you are using data applications.

And the good part of it, it can be online. You don't need to be in the same building, same, uh, uh, space with your, uh, with your participants.

And it will take some part of your interaction.

That tracking can be. And how many times that you visit the payment, uh.

Uh, web page and how many times that you visit the that payment page that you click the order.

And this kind of information can be automatically collected. Okay.

Which is good because we don't need to go and, uh, design this kind of experiments.

Then we will just design or we will just send the link and they will use it.

And, uh, on the background, we will collect the data. And it is good because we can discover some useful, uh, user patterns.

Okay. Maybe 100 users are logging, but after 2 or 3 interaction, they are dropping out to or proceeding to a product page.

So it will give a lot of information for us. And another one is the AV testing.

Okay for the students who are not attending this, uh, class now, they are confusing this about testing as a multiple choice.

Okay, but it's not multiple choice. You are creating the same product.

Which is slightly different. Okay. One will be let's say one will be okay.

That was this one. Um. This one.

This is the. This is the, uh, YouTube interface.

Interface? Okay. That will be your a and the.

For the B, you will just change this button.

In upwards, for instance, or this menu will give uh, instead of this kind of colour, it will give, uh, green colour first.

Okay. So you are making a change with the same interfaces.

Then. For the people that who can access A and the access B, you are measuring something.

That measurement metrics can be number of the clicks time to complete.

Okay. Everything is automatic. You don't need to, uh, give the, uh, links in person.

Just send it in the one mailing list or put in the credits and based on the IP,

give the IP or randomise the IP numbers and give the half of them to this half of them to this actor.

And you will have a some metrics like what to do with the interface.

B you will have an. A 100 more product selling compared to the, uh, interface a then in this case.

It means that your change made in the option B will be much more valuable for compared to the option.

Yes. You have a question? No.

But a person is gonna discover, okay, if you are regularly using the YouTube interface.

And if the change is obvious, then it means that change and Google are all is doing a lot for this one.

Like and even for two different browsers. Uh, if you open the browser in the Chrome and the brave, you will see the interface of change equals.

Okay, now let's get some serious. Uh uh.

Serious power of this obligation. Question.

With the power of the user. Testing. By using the AB testing.

Can you win an election? Who?

Yes. Okay. Which election?

Election in the teamwork. Election in the Netherlands.

Election within the Department. The idea is actually.

Yes we can. And in the Obama campaign. Actually, he collaborated with super, super smart.

Uh, data scientists. And they create a one.

One. Tests and methods. Okay.

In here you have two variables. One is the media.

That when you click the Obama campaign, uh, website or Obama campaign website and one media will be this one, and you have five alternatives.

Another change occur on the. On the, uh, text on the button.

If when we sign up, submit or log. Then you will have these alternatives.

Okay. Now you have this, uh, 6 million.

With, uh, for, uh, mathematics.

Okay. Like an, uh, join us now will be here. Here, here, here for everything.

And the combination of the learn more here, here it will be on, uh, on every, uh, every panel.

Okay. No, we have to. What's in here too? Which combination?

For the Obama will collect more donation.

Or use it with the registering gear. This is the real life case.

I remember in here I said that. You can get a lot of, uh, money to be rich.

In here. You can get lots of money to win. Probably one of the most important election in De in the history.

Come on. Which combination? It'll work. For the media.

Who are in favour of this one? No.

This guy. This one. Okay to.

Discount to you. To this one.

We have only one. This guy. Three.

Okay. Three. Okay. And how about this one?

The most is is a change as well. Join us now. Well 24.

You can watch multiple times. Uh, this is Epic's mobile.

Uh, three six. Okay. This one, the number. Two.

Set up. One two.

Sign up now. Two. Okay, so based on our, uh.

Mini baby testing or mini? Uh.

Mini data collection. The winner is this one. And the second winner was this one in lawnmower.

Oh! Yeah, I'm. It's six, and then this one is, uh, three.

What is the actual stuff? Okay.

And of course you need to compare with the baseline. And the baseline is this one. And the winning is this one.

Actually, we make it work. So it means that you already registered, uh, to open the campaign and donate some money for it.

Okay. And you see, we are quite simple. Uh, our sample size is quite limited in here, but it works.

Imagine that. It's, uh, on the scale of the country. Then the more the, uh, the data that you collect, the more that it will be representative.

And there it will be meaningful results for you. That's why then the number of participants plays super important roles in this kind of examples.

Okay, so Obama win the election and they get a lot of money and everybody is happy.

But to check this, uh. A link and you will find the whole story on it.

And there is very old representation. But. You can understand that.

Okay. How they manipulate, uh, this, uh, two variables and attract the users.

So the things that we are teaching in here has a lot of application in the real world.

And soon you will discover a lot. Actually, after, uh. After, uh, finishing the second year,

you will see a lot of application in the HCI in different domains because I'm sometimes randomly receiving an email.

Haemorrhoids. We use the, uh, Miro for this application.

Thank you for introducing a. Uh, at the earlier stage of the SDI project.

Okay. Another application is this one.

There is a one, uh, web blocker or the entrepreneur called Dustin Curtis.

Yeah. And at that time, uh, he put a one.

He did have one internal, uh, internal, uh, test by collecting data from the, uh, to the users.

And to increase the number of the followers in the Twitter he gave this option for.

Of course, he didn't put the options in the website.

Whenever one time you open the his website and that won't show up.

And every time you open his website or read this website, the console.

Now question to you. Which one is? Uh, yeah.

Which one lead to more, uh, visitors or uh uh uh uh, moral followers?

Which sentence? And this time I am asking why also.

Okay. Okay. You are creating a new website for CSI.

And you have been hired, and you want to increase the number of the followers for the CSI department in Twitter, Facebook and other social medias.

Which one you would prefer to put it? Yes I'm sure.

For the second part because first of all, it's uh right, uh uh uh, but it's, uh, super long three and four.

So, uh, the first, uh uh uh.

Understand where we come from. Uh, about, uh, really fast.

Uh. Uh. Yeah. Okay.

Any different ideas or the same ideas with a different description.

That's. First of all.

Okay, so one of you is in that range.

All. It's more.

I'm on Twitter with my full. And the first.

So the message is a bit polite, suggesting, but not, uh, assertive.

That's why you move. I in a few folks, and I was just.

I just put a logo on those.

Yeah, I. Let's say you are blogging in a platform that does not allow you to use the icons.

Only. I mean, I wouldn't use the. Uh, if you are, um, okay.

Twitter. Well, it's super minimal here. Okay. Okay.

So are you ready to see the results?

Okay, so I don't know, uh, how this percentages are calculated, but what I can show that this one, the last one a little more, uh, follows.

Do you have a possible explanation for it? Go. He is gonna be like these motivated workers.

Like. With a special. Highlighting the.

Okay. I cannot accept this one. Maybe this the one. I think I just noticed you.

It was. Huh? Uh uh, just miss, uh.

Us on the back page. Yeah, that is possible.

Okay, this is my interpretation. Okay. I will not ask any questions later this month, but yeah, actually,

the more that you are making your user read or click, it means that the more that you they invest their time on it.

And that's why when they came here. Okay.

And in here it's a bit assertive. So that's why they are, uh, subscribing from here more compared to the first one.

Of course, this is not an universal results, but it works for him.

And he showed that the number of the Twitter followers are increasing.

If he's using this. Okay.

Now another, uh. Another, uh, way to do it.

Uh, for the for the, uh, for the but for the evaluation.

But this time we are going to practice models. And it is a bit different than the previous model.

Different than AB testing. Different than, uh. In, uh, love, uh, experiments.

Here we have a predictive model. Just that's, uh, without, uh, any.

Without any. What's the introduction? Let's ask a question.

So imagine that your, uh, mouse cursor in here. Okay.

So which one for you is too easy to go and reach?

Left or right. Okay.

Okay. You mentioned that you are here. And the size of this button in here for the play.

You measure that this is the this one and I am changing with the bigger.

But. So here compared to here, which one is easy for me to reach?

This one. The big one. Okay. Who? Again, in here you had some form information and the type, your account ID, whatever it requires.

And to reach or signing this one or this one.

Second one. Yep. And this is called Kids Love.

Okay. So it means that. Let me go.

If it's loafers. It means that this size of, uh, targets.

So the the important parts, uh, that's, uh, makes your motor system like a for the, uh.

Water system to reach from one point to another is correlated with the size of, uh, the area that you are reaching.

Like in this case in the application. So we are application and you are using the the AR glasses and you are touching get one.

Uh I don't know the text. And for us, it will be super easy to reach the target in that arena rather than this one.

And this is, uh, we called, uh, uh, Fitts law.

Um, it is coming from, uh, this equation.

Like the reaction time or the time to reach is correlated with the.

With the size of your, uh, the object that you want to reach and the distance between you and the object that you want to reach.

Like here. Size is bigger. So reaching is quite easy.

So as it's smaller, I can overshoot. Sizes bigger.

Quite easy. Two sizes bigger, I can think. Okay.

So with this one, you don't need to collect data. Because we call it law.

It means that the model of this kind of behaviour already exists, that you don't need to.

You don't need to. What's the. Uh, you don't need to provide.

Uh, you don't need to provide, uh, or collect the data to decide which one is more clickable than the other.

Okay. So with this applications, we can say that this is, uh, predictive model.

And why predictive models? Because we didn't collect any data.

We didn't analyse the data. We just use this equation.

Okay to understand that, okay, how much or target size will be or what will be the distance.

Between the thing that you want to reach. And that your current cursor.

Does it make sense? Yes. No. It's about the reaction.

Yeah, it's a reaction time. Like reaction time. You can also see that the reaction time clicking and the.

And this is also existing there. Uh, this part, let's say I can find it.

Maybe choose. Just choose messages.

Ouch. Come on.

So first the designing the menu. It is terrible.

What can you. What is this? Yeah.

Designed. The menu in that way. Is much more useful for me than seeing them in the list.

Yeah. Why? Because it's shorter. My distance to click one of them.

If it's a list, I guess it's a list view also exist. Yeah.

Let's move here. For the list.

I have to go and check it. If it's alphabetic or some other sorting uh, uh, system uh, applied on here.

So it will be very hard for me to go and check it one by one. What I can do instead.

Okay. How can I change to the. Gridview.

If you give me an gridview, then I can navigate and easily.

If I find it easily, I can topple. So Apple actually successfully applied this one onto their, uh, systems and for the exam.

You should be responsible for the definition of it and why we are using defective models.

But we will not ask. This kind of equations for you.

Okay. I mean, if you say that's okay, but we are number person and we like numbers a lot.

Because we'll get calculus from, uh, Professor Jacomo. And we like, uh, him and the calculus a lot.

We can also ask, uh, uh, some formula question.

Of course. Uh, corresponding with real life application. Yeah, this is an interactive demo.

You can go and check it. But don't be sure that you will verify the, uh.

Uh, the definition. Well.

Okay, now we collect the data. At the end of this, uh, let's say, uh, experiments and, uh, a b testing some, uh.

Some other format of the data collection, and we need to do some analysis to make sure that it is significant.

And it is. We are measuring that the things that we want. And here actually it requires a lot of experience.

Okay. Which kind of testing that you need to use, which kind of metrics that you have to, uh, use for this kind of product.

You cannot do that by yourself. That's why HCI is a bit multidisciplinary research area.

In your team, you have some people background in the interaction design, some background in their programming.

Another one is psychology. For instance at some statistics statistic people.

Then everybody comes together and they try to solve one, uh, problem, uh, for the super expensive products.

Of course, for your group project, we are not expected to do to learn or perform some, uh, tests.

But good to know that, uh, this kind of stuff exists, that you can perform it.

And again, this is in the super waste area. I can super huge area.

People are only focusing this evolution methods in the design domain.

And we only give this some basics to you. And if you know this super, super uh, is that sound noise level of this one, you will pass the exam.

And you can also apply for your group project. But if you want to go in further details you can check in here.

What a nice, uh, uh, book. But it is around 600 pages, so it's very, very hard to read it.

And if you need much more, uh, resources, just ask me, then we will.

Uh, I will provide more, uh, more readings in the comments.

Okay, that's the last thing that I can mention.

Please attend to this week's, uh, lecture, uh, practice session and bring the.

But in this one, let me remind you, I will send an email, but bring some papers, some pants, some, uh, scissors, uh, with you.

And you will do your low fidelity prototype and we will give you a feedback to you.

Okay. So good luck for your exam. If you are not, uh, coming to the practicals and see you in next, next week.

Which. Okay.

Oh, yeah.

