example_examquestions_fromlecturer.txt
EXAM QUESTIONS HCI 

Q1 

Design alternatives 
Prototyping 
Evaluation 
Needfinding - method which can be applied

Q2 

Intern position in company for designing electronics for planes, two possible functionalities of using colors (LEDS) 
On these devices. 

Feedback
ON OF 
Error message 
Diffrent type of information (attention) Q3

Make the following sentence true false

An intelligent interface lacks the ability to take initiate in providing suggestions or assistance to the user 

An intelligent interface is able to adapt its functionality to meet the varying needs of diffrent users.


Q4

Extroception	 	refers to the body’s ability to sense perceive stimulus anabatibng outside of the body and 
Is an example of such sensations  		vision


Q5

Don Norman proposed the concept of gulf execution. It is the the designers responsibility to use this concept to build useful products, Please think of yourself as a designer and anwser the following questions accordingvlt, 


What Iis a gulf of execution

Intentions of users what the systems allow them to do 

Please state whether you will aim t ominim,oize or maximize this gulf while building products 

Minimize

Q6 

Which one of these imopekemtation would you choose for the Nielsen visibility of systems status 

A the robot generates the audio message “batting completed” after successful booting then the robot makes a victory sign 

A progress bar ;ole ;ioghjt show s various states of the booting opriggress where each bar shows a diffrent stage of the booting procedur . For example LEds are located on the nav robots body


Q7

You are on a spacehship and find large display screen, a control panel with a number of buttons. One of the busttons has a triangle symbol pouting to the right. Pressing the button plays a video on the display screen .  The symbol on this buttons is an example of Signifier. 

Q8 

You wrote this link to be sent to Luke@gmail.com 

But ur address book does not contain such email. Would you like to send the email to LukeSkywalker@gmail.com 

What kind of heuristic is that?Q9 

Write two advantages of within subject design compared to between subject design 


Q10 the hospital management asks you to name and define the design concept/principle that makes this door to be opened/closed intuitively. 


Affordance. 

Q10

Primary 
Tertiary Stakeholders 


Q12

HCI product or not? 


Q13

User + computer + task  

Q14

Design elements of the webpage 

Grid + color palette + Font + hierarchy 



 



 
















